---
layout: arxiv
title: 200007 Filtered arXiv Papers
---

**1.    Quantum Algorithms for Element Distinctness**  
Harry Buhrman, Christoph Durr, Mark Heiligman, Peter Hoyer, Frederic Magniez, Miklos Santha, Ronald de Wolf  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007016  
<blockquote>
<p>
We present several applications of quantum amplitude amplification to finding claws and collisions in ordered or unordered functions. Our algorithms generalize those of Brassard, Hoyer, and Tapp, and imply an O(N^{3/4} log N) quantum upper bound for the element distinctness problem in the comparison complexity model (contrasting with Theta(N log N) classical complexity). We also prove a lower bound of Omega(N^{1/2}) comparisons for this problem and derive bounds for a number of related problems.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**2.    Maximum efficiency of a linear-optical Bell-state analyzer**  
John Calsamiglia, Norbert Lütkenhaus  
Appl. Phys. B 72, 67-71 (2001)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007058  
<blockquote>
<p>
In a photonic realization of qubits the implementation of quantum logic is rather difficult due the extremely weak interaction on the few photon level. On the other hand, in these systems interference is available to process the quantum states. We formalize the use of interference by the definition of a simple class of operations which include linear optical elements, auxiliary states and conditional operations. We investigate an important subclass of these tools, namely linear optical elements and auxiliary modes in the vacuum state. For this tools, we are able to extend a previous quantitative result, a no-go theorem for perfect Bell state analyzer on two qubits in polarization entanglement, by a quantitative statement. We show, that within this subclass it is not possible to discriminate unambiguously four equiprobable Bell states with a probability higher than 50 %.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**3.    Quantum key distribution in the Holevo limit**  
Adan Cabello  
Phys. Rev. Lett. 85 (2000) 5635-5638  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007064  
<blockquote>
<p>
A theorem by Shannon and the Holevo theorem impose that the efficiency of any protocol for quantum key distribution, $\cal E$, defined as the number of secret (i.e., allowing eavesdropping detection) bits per transmitted bit plus qubit, is ${\cal E} \le 1$. The problem addressed here is whether the limit ${\cal E} =1$ can be achieved. It is showed that it can be done by splitting the secret bits between several qubits and forcing Eve to have only a sequential access to the qubits, as proposed by Goldenberg and Vaidman. A protocol with ${\cal E} =1$ based on polarized photons and in which Bob's state discrimination can be implemented with linear optical elements is presented.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**4.    Coherent transport of matter waves**  
C. Henkel, S. Potting  
Appl. Phys. B 72 (2001) 73-80  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007083  
<blockquote>
<p>
A transport theory for atomic matter waves in low-dimensional waveguides is outlined. The thermal fluctuation spectrum of magnetic near fields leaking out of metallic microstructures is estimated. The corresponding scattering rate for paramagnetic atoms turns out to be quite large in micrometer-sized waveguides (approx. 100/s). Analytical estimates for the heating and decoherence of a cold atom cloud are given. We finally discuss numerical and analytical results for the scattering from static potential imperfections and the ensuing spatial diffusion process.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**5.    Quantum Teleportation and Bell's Inequality Using Single-Particle Entanglement**  
Hai-Woong Lee, Jaewan Kim  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007106  
<blockquote>
<p>
A single-particle entangled state can be generated by illuminating a beam splitter with a single photon. Quantum teleportation utilizing such a single-particle entangled state can be successfully achieved with a simple setup consisting only of linear optical devices such as beam splitters and phase shifters. Application of the locality assumption to a single-particle entangled state leads to Bell's inequality, a violation of which signifies the nonlocal nature of a single particle.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**6.    The Universality of the Quantum Fourier Transform in Forming the Basis of Quantum Computing Algorithms**  
Charles M. Bowden, Goong Chen, Zijian Diao, Andreas Klappenecker  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007122  
<blockquote>
<p>
The quantum Fourier transform (QFT) is a powerful tool in quantum computing. The main ingredients of QFT are formed by the Walsh-Hadamard transform H and phase shifts P(.), both of which are 2x2 unitary matrices as operators on the two-dimensional 1-qubit space. In this paper, we show that H and P(.) suffice to generate the unitary group U(2) and, consequently, through controlled-U operations and their concatenations, the entire unitary group U(2^n) on n-qubits can be generated. Since any quantum computing algorithm in an n-qubit quantum computer is based on operations by matrices in U(2^n), in this sense we have the universality of the QFT.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**7.    Generalization of Grover's Algorithm to Multiobject Search in Quantum Computing, Part I: Continuous Time and Discrete Time**  
Goong Chen, Stephen A. Fulling, Jeesen Chen  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007123  
<blockquote>
<p>
L. K. Grover's search algorithm in quantum computing gives an optimal, quadratic speedup in the search for a single object in a large unsorted database. In this paper, we generalize Grover's algorithm in a Hilbert-space framework for both continuous and discrete time cases that isolates its geometrical essence to the case where more than one object satisfies the search criterion.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**8.    Generalization of Grover's Algorithm to Multiobject Search in Quantum Computing, Part II: General Unitary Transformations**  
Goong Chen, Shunhua Sun  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007124  
<blockquote>
<p>
There are major advantages in a newer version of Grover's quantum algorithm utilizing a general unitary transformation in the search of a single object in a large unsorted database. In this paper, we generalize this algorithm to multiobject search. We show the techniques to achieve the reduction of the problem to one on an invariant subspace of dimension just equal to two.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

