---
layout: arxiv
title: 200103 Filtered arXiv Papers
---

**1.    An example of the difference between quantum and classical random walks**  
Andrew M. Childs, Edward Farhi, Sam Gutmann  
Quantum Information Processing 1, 35 (2002)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103020  
<blockquote>
<p>
In this note, we discuss a general definition of quantum random walks on graphs and illustrate with a simple graph the possibility of very different behavior between a classical random walk and its quantum analogue. In this graph, propagation between a particular pair of nodes is exponentially faster in the quantum case.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**2.    Generation of correlated photons in controlled spatial modes by down-conversion in nonlinear waveguides**  
Konrad Banaszek, Alfred B. U'Ren, Ian A. Walmsley  
Opt. Lett. 26, 1367-1369 (2001)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103026  
<blockquote>
<p>
We report the observation of correlated photon pairs generated by spontaneous parametric down-conversion in a quasi-phase matched KTiOPO4 nonlinear waveguide. The highest ratio of coincidence to single photon count rates observed in the 830 nm wavelength region exceeds 18%. This makes nonlinear waveguides a promising source of correlated photons for metrology and quantum information processing applications. We also discuss possibilities of controlling the spatial characteristics of the down-converted photons produced in multimode waveguide structures.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**3.    Effect of an inhomogeneous external magnetic field on a quantum dot quantum computer**  
Rogerio de Sousa, Xuedong Hu, S. Das Sarma  
Phys. Rev. A 64, 042307 (2001)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0103410  
<blockquote>
<p>
We calculate the effect of an inhomogeneous magnetic field, which is invariably present in an experimental environment, on the exchange energy of a double quantum dot artificial molecule, projected to be used as a 2-qubit quantum gate in the proposed quantum dot quantum computer. We use two different theoretical methods to calculate the Hilbert space structure in the presence of the inhomogeneous field: the Heitler-London method which is carried out analytically and the molecular orbital method which is done computationally. Within these approximations we show that the exchange energy J changes slowly when the coupled dots are subject to a magnetic field with a wide range of inhomogeneity, suggesting swap operations can be performed in such an environment as long as quantum error correction is applied to account for the Zeeman term. We also point out the quantum interference nature of this slow variation in exchange.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**4.    Toward an architecture for quantum programming**  
S. Bettelli, L. Serafini, T. Calarco  
Eur. Phys. J. D, Vol. 25, No. 2, pp. 181-200 (2003)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/cs/0103009  
<blockquote>
<p>
It is becoming increasingly clear that, if a useful device for quantum computation will ever be built, it will be embodied by a classical computing machine with control over a truly quantum subsystem, this apparatus performing a mixture of classical and quantum computation. This paper investigates a possible approach to the problem of programming such machines: a template high level quantum language is presented which complements a generic general purpose classical language with a set of quantum primitives. The underlying scheme involves a run-time environment which calculates the byte-code for the quantum operations and pipes it to a quantum device controller or to a simulator. This language can compactly express existing quantum algorithms and reduce them to sequences of elementary operations; it also easily lends itself to automatic, hardware independent, circuit simplification. A publicly available preliminary implementation of the proposed ideas has been realized using the C++ language.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

