---
layout: arxiv
title: 200111 Filtered arXiv Papers
---

**1.    Exact and Approximate Performance of Concatenated Quantum Codes**  
Benjamin Rahn, Andrew C. Doherty, Hideo Mabuchi  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111003  
<blockquote>
<p>
We derive the effective channel for a logical qubit protected by an arbitrary quantum error-correcting code, and derive the map between channels induced by concatenation. For certain codes in the presence of single-bit Pauli errors, we calculate the exact threshold error probability for perfect fidelity in the infinite concatenation limit. We then use the control theory technique of balanced truncation to find low-order non-asymptotic approximations for the effective channel dynamics.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**2.    Almost any quantum spin system with short-range interactions can support toric codes**  
Maxim Raginsky  
Phys. Lett. A 294, 153-157 (2002)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111035  
<blockquote>
<p>
Inspired by Kitaev's argument that physical error correction is possible in a system of interacting anyons, we demonstrate that such "self-correction" is fairly common in spin systems with classical Hamiltonians that admit the Peierls argument and where errors are modelled by quantum perturbations.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**3.    Secure assisted quantum computation**  
Andrew M. Childs  
Quantum Information and Computation 5, 456 (2005)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111046  
<blockquote>
<p>
Suppose Alice wants to perform some computation that could be done quickly on a quantum computer, but she cannot do universal quantum computation. Bob can do universal quantum computation and claims he is willing to help, but Alice wants to be sure that Bob cannot learn her input, the result of her calculation, or perhaps even the function she is trying to compute. We describe a simple, efficient protocol by which Bob can help Alice perform the computation, but there is no way for him to learn anything about it. We also discuss techniques for Alice to detect whether Bob is honestly helping her or if he is introducing errors.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**4.    Entangled-photon Fourier optics**  
Ayman F. Abouraddy, Bahaa E. A. Saleh, Alexander V. Sergienko, Malvin C. Teich  
J. Opt. Soc. Am. B 19, 1174-1184 (2002)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111054  
<blockquote>
<p>
Entangled photons, generated by spontaneous parametric down-conversion from a second-order nonlinear crystal, present a rich potential for imaging and image-processing applications. Since this source is an example of a three-wave mixing process, there is more flexibility in the choices of illumination and detection wavelengths and in the placement of object(s) to be imaged. Moreover, this source is entangled, a fact that allows for imaging configurations and capabilities that cannot be achieved using classical sources of light. In this paper we examine a number of imaging and image-processing configurations that can be realized using this source. The formalism that we utilize facilitates the determination of the dependence of imaging resolution on the physical parameters of the optical arrangement.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**5.    Equivalent efficiency of a simulated photon-number detector**  
K. Nemoto, S. L. Braunstein  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111087  
<blockquote>
<p>
Homodyne detection is considered as a way to improve the efficiency of communication near the single-photon level. The current lack of commercially available {\it infrared} photon-number detectors significantly reduces the mutual information accessible in such a communication channel. We consider simulating direct detection via homodyne detection. We find that our particular simulated direct detection strategy could provide limited improvement in the classical information transfer. However, we argue that homodyne detectors (and a polynomial number of linear optical elements) cannot simulate photocounters arbitrarily well, since otherwise the exponential gap between quantum and classical computers would vanish.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**6.    Approximate Quantum Cloning with Nuclear Magnetic Resonance**  
H. K. Cummins, C. Jones, A. Furze, N. F. Soffe, M. Mosca, J. M. Peach, J. A. Jones  
Phys. Rev. Lett. 88, 187901 (2002)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111098  
<blockquote>
<p>
Here we describe a Nuclear Magnetic Resonance (NMR) experiment that uses a three qubit NMR device to implement the one to two approximate quantum cloning network of Buzek et al.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**7.    Quantum Lower Bound for the Collision Problem**  
Scott Aaronson  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111102  
<blockquote>
<p>
The collision problem is to decide whether a function X:{1,..,n}->{1,..,n} is one-to-one or two-to-one, given that one of these is the case. We show a lower bound of Theta(n^{1/5}) on the number of queries needed by a quantum computer to solve this problem with bounded error probability. The best known upper bound is O(n^{1/3}), but obtaining any lower bound better than Theta(1) was an open problem since 1997. Our proof uses the polynomial method augmented by some new ideas. We also give a lower bound of Theta(n^{1/7}) for the problem of deciding whether two sets are equal or disjoint on a constant fraction of elements. Finally we give implications of these results for quantum complexity theory.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**8.    Modified Grover's algorithm for an expectation value quantum computer**  
David Collins  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111108  
<blockquote>
<p>
The translation of Grover's search algorithm from its standard version, designed for implementation on a single quantum system amenable to projective measurements, into one suitable for an ensemble of quantum computers, whose outputs are expectation values of observables, is described in detail. A filtering scheme, which effectively determines expectation values on a limited portion of the quantum state, is presented and used to locate a single item for searches involving more than one marked item. A truncated version of Grover's algorithm, requiring fewer steps than the translated standard version but locating marked items just as successfully, is proposed. For quantum computational devices which only return expectation values, the truncated version is superior to its standard counterpart. This indicates that it is possible to modify quantum algorithms so as to reduce the required temporal resources by using the ensemble's spatial resources.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**9.    Gain tuning and fidelity in continuous variable quantum teleportation**  
Toshiki Ide, Holger F. Hofmann, Akira Furusawa, Takayoshi Kobayashi  
Phys. Rev. A 65, 062303 (2002)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111127  
<blockquote>
<p>
The fidelity of continuous variable teleportation can be optimized by changing the gain in the modulation of the output field. We discuss the gain dependence of fidelity for coherent, vacuum and one photon inputs and propose optimal gain tuning strategies for corresponding input selections.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**10.    Temporal imperfections building up correcting codes**  
Stefano Mancini, Rodolfo Bonifacio  
J. Mod. Opt. 49, 1587 (2002).  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111129  
<blockquote>
<p>
We address the timing problem in realizing correcting codes for quantum information processing. To deal with temporal uncertainties we employ a consistent quantum mechanical approach. The conditions for optimizing the effect of error correction in such a case are determined.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**11.    Exact positivity of the Wigner and P-functions of a Markovian open system**  
Lajos Diosi, Claus Kiefer  
J.Phys.A35:2675-2684,2002  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111139  
<blockquote>
<p>
We discuss the case of a Markovian master equation for an open system, as it is frequently found from environmental decoherence. We prove two theorems for the evolution of the quantum state. The first one states that for a generic initial state the corresponding Wigner function becomes strictly positive after a finite time has elapsed. The second one states that also the P-function becomes exactly positive after a decoherence time of the same order. Therefore the density matrix becomes exactly decomposable into a mixture of Gaussian pointer states.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**12.    From quantum master equation to random walk**  
C. F. Huang  
http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0111026  
<blockquote>
<p>
It is shown in this paper that the quantum master equation can be mapped to a modified continuous time random walk (CTRW) if the relaxation term is composed of transitions over a set of states. When the Hamiltonian is time-independent and transitions are between its eigenlevels, such a modified CTRW reduces to the Markovian walk equivalent to the Pauli master equation. On the other hand, the memory in such a modified CTRW is composed of a temporal factor and the probability determined by the Liouville flow when the relaxation term is reduced as a special dephasing term.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

