---
layout: arxiv
title: 200306 Filtered arXiv Papers
---

**1.    Squeezing based on nondegenerate frequency doubling internal to a realistic laser**  
Ulrik L. Andersen, Peter Tidemand-Lichtenberg, Preben Buchhave  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0306046  
<blockquote>
<p>
We investigate theoretically the quantum fluctuations of the fundamental field in the output of a nondegenerate second harmonic generation process occuring inside a laser cavity. Due to the nondegenerate character of the nonlinear medium, a field orthogonal to the laser field is for some operating conditions indepedent of the fluctuations produced by the laser medium. We show that this fact may lead to perfect squeezing for a certain polarization mode of the fundamental field. The experimental feasibility of the system is also discussed.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**2.    Spatial search by quantum walk**  
Andrew M. Childs, Jeffrey Goldstone  
Phys. Rev. A 70, 022314 (2004)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0306054  
<blockquote>
<p>
Grover's quantum search algorithm provides a way to speed up combinatorial search, but is not directly applicable to searching a physical database. Nevertheless, Aaronson and Ambainis showed that a database of N items laid out in d spatial dimensions can be searched in time of order sqrt(N) for d>2, and in time of order sqrt(N) poly(log N) for d=2. We consider an alternative search algorithm based on a continuous time quantum walk on a graph. The case of the complete graph gives the continuous time search algorithm of Farhi and Gutmann, and other previously known results can be used to show that sqrt(N) speedup can also be achieved on the hypercube. We show that full sqrt(N) speedup can be achieved on a d-dimensional periodic lattice for d>4. In d=4, the quantum walk search algorithm takes time of order sqrt(N) poly(log N), and in d<4, the algorithm does not provide substantial speedup.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**3.    Single-photon interference experiment over 100 km for quantum cryptography system using a balanced gated-mode photon detector**  
Hideo Kosaka, Akihisa Tomita, Yoshihiro Nambu, Tadamasa Kimura, Kazuo Nakamura  
Electron. Lett., vol. 39, No. 16, pp. 1199-1201(2003).  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0306066  
<blockquote>
<p>
We demonstrate single-photon interference over 100 km using a balanced gated-mode photon detector and a plug & play system for quantum key distribution. The visibility with 0.1 photon/pulse was more than 80% after 100 km transmission. This corresponds to the fidelity of a quantum cryptography system of more than 90% and a QBER of less than 10%, satisfying the security criteria.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**4.    Quantum Domain Theory - Definitions and Applications**  
Elham Kashefi  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0306077  
<blockquote>
<p>
Classically domain theory is a rigourous mathematical structure to describe denotational semantics for programming languages and to study the computability of partial functions. Recently, the application of domain theory has also been extended to the quantum setting. In this note we review these results and we present some new thoughts in this field.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**5.    Experimental requirements for Grover's algorithm in optical quantum computation**  
Jennifer L. Dodd, Timothy C. Ralph, G. J. Milburn  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0306081  
<blockquote>
<p>
The field of linear optical quantum computation (LOQC) will soon need a repertoire of experimental milestones. We make progress in this direction by describing several experiments based on Grover's algorithm. These experiments range from a relatively simple implementation using only a single non-scalable CNOT gate to the most complex, requiring two concatenated scalable CNOT gates, and thus form a useful set of early milestones for LOQC. We also give a complete description of basic LOQC using polarization-encoded qubits, making use of many simplifications to the original scheme of Knill, Laflamme, and Milburn.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**6.    Explicit effective Hamiltonians for general linear quantum-optical networks**  
U. Leonhardt, A. Neumaier  
Journal of Optics B 6, L1 (2003)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0306123  
<blockquote>
<p>
Linear optical networks are devices that turn classical incident modes by a linear transformation into outgoing ones. In general, the quantum version of such transformations may mix annihilation and creation operators. We derive a simple formula for the effective Hamiltonian of a general linear quantum network, if such a Hamiltonian exists. Otherwise we show how the scattering matrix of the network is decomposed into a product of three matrices that can be generated by Hamiltonians.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**7.    Quantum walks on general graphs**  
Viv Kendon  
Int. J. Quantum Info. Vol. 4, No. 5 (2006) 791-805  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0306140  
<blockquote>
<p>
Quantum walks, both discrete (coined) and continuous time, on a general graph of N vertices with undirected edges are reviewed in some detail. The resource requirements for implementing a quantum walk as a program on a quantum computer are compared and found to be very similar for both discrete and continuous time walks. The role of the oracle, and how it changes if more prior information about the graph is available, is also discussed.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**8.    Operator-Schmidt decompositions and the Fourier transform, with applications to the operator-Schmidt numbers of unitaries**  
Jon E Tyson  
J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 36 (2003) 10101-10114  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0306144  
<blockquote>
<p>
The operator-Schmidt decomposition is useful in quantum information theory for quantifying the nonlocality of bipartite unitary operations. We construct a family of unitary operators on C^n tensor C^n whose operator-Schmidt decompositions are computed using the discrete Fourier transform. As a corollary, we produce unitaries on C^3 tensor C^3 with operator-Schmidt number S for every S in {1,...,9}. This corollary was unexpected, since it contradicted reasonable conjectures of Nielsen et al [Phys. Rev. A 67 (2003) 052301] based on intuition from a striking result in the two-qubit case. By the results of Dur, Vidal, and Cirac [Phys. Rev. Lett. 89 (2002) 057901 quant-ph/0112124], who also considered the two-qubit case, our result implies that there are nine equivalence classes of unitaries on C^3 tensor C^3 which are probabilistically interconvertible by (stochastic) local operations and classical communication. As another corollary, a prescription is produced for constructing maximally-entangled operators from biunimodular functions. Reversing tact, we state a generalized operator-Schmidt decomposition of the quantum Fourier transform considered as an operator C^M_1 tensor C^M_2 --> C^N_1 tensor C^N_2, with M_1 x M_2 = N_1 x N_2. This decomposition shows (by Nielsen's bound) that the communication cost of the QFT remains maximal when a net transfer of qudits is permitted. In an appendix, a canonical procedure is given for removing basis-dependence for results and proofs depending on the "magic basis" introduced in [S. Hill and W. Wootters, "Entanglement of a pair of quantum bits," Phys Rev. Lett 78 (1997) 5022-5025, quant-ph/9703041 (and quant-ph/9709029)].
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**9.    Method of extending hyperfine coherence times in Pr^3+:Y_2SiO_5**  
E. Fraval, M. J. Sellars, J. J. Longdell  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0306169  
<blockquote>
<p>
In this letter we present a method for increasing the coherence time of praseodymium hyperfine ground state transitions in Pr^3+:Y_2SiO_5 by the application of a specific external magnetic field. The magnitude and angle of the external field is applied such that the Zeeman splitting of a hyperfine transition is at a critical point in three dimensions, making the first order Zeeman shift vanishingly small for the transition. This reduces the influence of the magnetic interactions between the praseodymium ions and the spins in the host lattice on the transition frequency. Using this method a phase memory time of 82ms was observed, a value two orders of magnitude greater than previously reported. It is shown that the residual dephasing is amenable quantum error correction.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**10.    Grover's Quantum Search Algorithm for an Arbitrary Initial Mixed State**  
Eli Biham, Dan Kenigsberg  
Physical Review A 66:062301 (2002)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0306183  
<blockquote>
<p>
The Grover quantum search algorithm is generalized to deal with an arbitrary mixed initial state. The probability to measure a marked state as a function of time is calculated, and found to depend strongly on the specific initial state. The form of the function, though, remains as it is in the case of initial pure state. We study the role of the von Neumann entropy of the initial state, and show that the entropy cannot be a measure for the usefulness of the algorithm. We give few examples and show that for some extremely mixed initial states carrying high entropy, the generalized Grover algorithm is considerably faster than any classical algorithm.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**11.    Proposal for a simple quantum error correction test gate in linear optics**  
T.C.Ralph  
IEEE Journal of Selected Topics in Quantum Electronics, 9, 1495 (2003).  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0306190  
<blockquote>
<p>
We describe a linear quantum optical circuit capable of demonstrating a simple quantum error correction code in a four photon experiment.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**12.    Quantum Kalman Filtering and the Heisenberg Limit in Atomic Magnetometry**  
JM Geremia, John K. Stockton, Andrew C. Doherty, Hideo Mabuchi  
Phys. Rev. Lett. 91, 250801 (2003)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0306192  
<blockquote>
<p>
The shot-noise detection limit in current high-precision atomic magnetometry is a manifestation of quantum fluctuations that scale as the square root of N in an ensemble of N particles. However, there is a general expectation that the reduced projection noise provided by conditional spin-squeezing could be exploited to surpass the conventional shot-noise limit. We show that continuous measurement coupled with quantum Kalman filtering provides an optimal procedure for magnetic detection limits that scale with 1/N, the Heisenberg squeezing limit. Our analysis demonstrates the importance of optimal estimation procedures for high bandwidth precision magnetometry.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**13.    Misbelief and misunderstandings on the non--Markovian dynamics of a damped harmonic oscillator**  
S. Maniscalco, F. Intravaia, J. Piilo, A. Messina  
J. Opt. B: Quantum Semiclass. Opt. 6 (2004) S98--S103  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0306193  
<blockquote>
<p>
We use the exact solution for the damped harmonic oscillator to discuss some relevant aspects of its open dynamics often mislead or misunderstood. We compare two different approximations both referred to as Rotating Wave Approximation. Using a specific example, we clarify some issues related to non--Markovian dynamics, non--Lindblad type dynamics, and positivity of the density matrix.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**14.    Nonlinear Rabi Oscillations of Excitons in Dense Quantum Dot System**  
Y. Mitsumori, A. Hasegawa, M. Sasaki, H. Maruki, F. Minami  
http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0306086  
<blockquote>
<p>
Nonlinear optical response and optical coherence of excitons in semiconductor dense quantum dots in GaAs single quantum wells has been studied by using photon echo techniques. At low temperatures, the optical coherence is estimated to be 2 ns from the decay curve in the photon echo signal. Rabi oscillations are also observed. Unlike the results for a single quantum dot in the literature to date, the oscillation shows nonlinear behavior affected strongly by the pre-excited carrier density. The results can be explained by the theory of the local field correction originating from exciton-exciton interaction between the inter dots.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

