---
layout: arxiv
title: 200309 Filtered arXiv Papers
---

**1.    Closed-loop Quantum Parameter Estimation: Spins in a Magnetic Field**  
JM Geremia, John K. Stockton, Hideo Mabuchi  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309034  
<blockquote>
<p>
We present an experimental demonstration of closed-loop quantum parameter estimation in which real-time feedback is used to achieve robustness to modeling uncertainty. By performing broadband estimation of a magnetic field acting on hyperfine spins in a cold atom ensemble, we show that accuracy is not compromised by fluctuations in total atom number even though the measured signal in our canonical configuration depends only on the product of the field and atom number. This methodology could be essential for efforts to utilize conditional squeezing in spin-resonance measurements.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**2.    A redefinition of Concurrence and its generalisation to bosonic subsystems of N qubit systems**  
D. D. Bhaktavatsala Rao, V. Ravishankar  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309047  
<blockquote>
<p>
We refine the notion of concurrence in this paper by a redefinition of the concept. The new definition is simpler, computationally straight forward, and allows the concurrence to be directly read off from the state. It has all the positive features of the definiton given by Wootters over and above which it can discriminate between different systems to which the Wootters prescription would assign the same value. Finally, the definiton leads to a natural extension of the notion to multiqubit concurrence, which we illustrate with examples from quantum error correction codes.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**3.    Quantum Flows as Markovian Limit of Emission, Absorption and Scattering Interactions**  
John Gough  
Commun. Math. Phys. Vol. 254, no.2, 489-512, March 2005  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309056  
<blockquote>
<p>
We consider a Markovian approximation, of weak coupling type, to an open system perturbation involving emission, absorption and scattering by reservoir quanta. The result is the general form for a quantum stochastic flow driven by creation, annihilation and gauge processes. A weak matrix limit is established for the convergence of the interaction-picture unitary to a unitary, adapted quantum stochastic process and of the Heisenberg dynamics to the corresponding quantum stochastic flow: the convergence strategy is similar to the quantum functional central limits introduced by Accardi, Frigerio and Lu$^{[ 1]}$. The principal terms in the Dyson series expansions are identified and re-summed after the limit to obtain explicit quantum stochastic differential equations with renormalized coefficients. An extension of the Pul\UNICODE{0xe9} inequalities$^{[ 2]}$ allows uniform estimates for the Dyson series expansion for both the unitary operator and the Heisenberg evolution to be obtained.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**4.    Quantum Markovian Approximations for Fermionic Reservoirs**  
John Gough, Andrei Sobolev  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309057  
<blockquote>
<p>
We establish a quantum functional central limit for the dynamics of a system coupled to a Fermionic bath with a general interaction linear in the creation, annihilation and scattering of the bath reservoir. Following a quantum Markovian limit, we realize the open dynamical evolution of the system as an adapted quantum stochastic process driven by Fermionic Noise.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**5.    Characterization of pure quantum states of multiple qubits using the Groverian entanglement measure**  
Yishai Shimoni, Daniel Shapira, Ofer Biham  
Phys. Rev. A 69, 062303 (2004)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309062  
<blockquote>
<p>
The Groverian entanglement measure, G(psi), is applied to characterize a variety of pure quantum states |psi> of multiple qubits. The Groverian measure is calculated analytically for certain states of high symmetry, while for arbitrary states it is evaluated using a numerical procedure. In particular, it is calculated for the class of Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger states, the W states as well as for random pure states of n qubits. The entanglement generated by Grover's algorithm is evaluated by calculating G(psi) for the intermediate states that are obtained after t Grover iterations, for various initial states and for different sets of the marked states.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**6.    One dimensional quantum walk with unitary noise**  
Daniel Shapira, Ofer Biham, A.J. Bracken, Michelle Hackett  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309063  
<blockquote>
<p>
The effect of unitary noise on the discrete one-dimensional quantum walk is studied using computer simulations. For the noiseless quantum walk, starting at the origin (n=0) at time t=0, the position distribution Pt(n) at time t is very different from the Gaussian distribution obtained for the classical random walk. Furthermore, its standard deviation, sigma(t) scales as sigma(t) ~ t, unlike the classical random walk for which sigma(t) ~ sqrt{t}. It is shown that when the quantum walk is exposed to unitary noise, it exhibits a crossover from quantum behavior for short times to classical-like behavior for long times. The crossover time is found to be T ~ alpha^(-2) where alpha is the standard deviation of the noise.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**7.    The non-Markovian quantum behavior of open systems: An exact Monte Carlo method employing stochastic product states**  
Heinz-Peter Breuer  
Eur. Phys. J. D 29, 105-118 (2004)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309114  
<blockquote>
<p>
It is shown that the exact dynamics of a composite quantum system can be represented through a pair of product states which evolve according to a Markovian random jump process. This representation is used to design a general Monte Carlo wave function method that enables the stochastic treatment of the full non-Markovian behavior of open quantum systems. Numerical simulations are carried out which demonstrate that the method is applicable to open systems strongly coupled to a bosonic reservoir, as well as to the interaction with a spin bath. Full details of the simulation algorithms are given, together with an investigation of the dynamics of fluctuations. Several potential generalizations of the method are outlined.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**8.    Weak limits for quantum random walks**  
Geoffrey Grimmett, Svante Janson, Petra Scudo  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309135  
<blockquote>
<p>
We formulate and prove a general weak limit theorem for quantum random walks in one and more dimensions. With $X_n$ denoting position at time $n$, we show that $X_n/n$ converges weakly as $n \to \infty$ to a certain distribution which is absolutely continuous and of bounded support. The proof is rigorous and makes use of Fourier transform methods. This approach simplifies and extends certain preceding derivations valid in one dimension that make use of combinatorial and path integral methods.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**9.    Entanglement Echoes in Quantum Computation**  
Davide Rossini, Giuliano Benenti, Giulio Casati  
Phys. Rev. A 69, 052317 (2004)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309146  
<blockquote>
<p>
We study the stability of entanglement in a quantum computer implementing an efficient quantum algorithm, which simulates a quantum chaotic dynamics. For this purpose, we perform a forward-backward evolution of an initial state in which two qubits are in a maximally entangled Bell state. If the dynamics is reversed after an evolution time $t_r$, there is an echo of the entanglement between these two qubits at time $t_e=2t_r$. Perturbations attenuate the pairwise entanglement echo and generate entanglement between these two qubits and the other qubits of the quantum computer.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**10.    Quantum Error Correction in the Zeno Regime**  
Noam Erez, Yakir Aharonov, Benni Reznik, Lev Vaidman  
Phys. Rev. A 69 (6), 062315 (2004)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309162  
<blockquote>
<p>
In order to reduce errors, error correction codes (ECCs) need to be implemented fast. They can correct the errors corresponding to the first few orders in the Taylor expansion of the Hamiltonian of the interaction with the environment. If implemented fast enough, the zeroth order error predominates and the dominant effect is of error prevention by measurement (Zeno Effect) rather than correction. In this ``Zeno Regime'', codes with less redundancy are sufficient for protection. We describe such a simple scheme, which uses two ``noiseless'' qubits to protect a large number, $n$, of information qubits from noise from the environment. The ``noisless qubits'' can be realized by treating them as logical qubits to be encoded by one of the previously introduced encoding schemes.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**11.    Towards a geometrical interpretation of quantum information compression**  
Graeme Mitchison, Richard Jozsa  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309177  
<blockquote>
<p>
Let S be the von Neumann entropy of a finite ensemble E of pure quantum states. We show that S may be naturally viewed as a function of a set of geometrical volumes in Hilbert space defined by the states and that S is monotonically increasing in each of these variables. Since S is the Schumacher compression limit of E, this monotonicity property suggests a geometrical interpretation of the quantum redundancy involved in the compression process. It provides clarification of previous work in which it was shown that S may be increased while increasing the overlap of each pair of states in the ensemble. As a byproduct, our mathematical techniques also provide a new interpretation of the subentropy of E.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**12.    Fluctuations of Quantum Random Walks on Circles**  
Norio Inui, Yoshinao Konishi, Norio Konno, Takahiro Soshi  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309204  
<blockquote>
<p>
Temporal fluctuations in the Hadamard walk on circles are studied. A temporal standard deviation of probability that a quantum random walker is positive at a given site is introduced to manifest striking differences between quantum and classical random walks. An analytical expression of the temporal standard deviation on a circle with odd sites is shown and its asymptotic behavior is considered for large system size. In contrast with classical random walks, the temporal fluctuation of quantum random walks depends on the position and initial conditions, since temporal standard deviation of the classical case is zero for any site. It indicates that the temporal fluctuation of the Hadamard walk can be controlled.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

