---
layout: arxiv
title: 200408 Filtered arXiv Papers
---

**1.    Contextual Observables and Quantum Information**  
M. Kupczynski  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408002  
<blockquote>
<p>
In this short paper we present the main features of a new quantum programming language proposed recently by Peter Selinger which gives a good idea about the difficulties of constructing a scalable quantum computer. We show how some of these difficulties are related to the contextuality of quantum observables and to the abstract and statistical character of quantun theory (QT). We discuss also, in some detail, the statistical interpretation (SI) of QT and the contextuality of observables indicating the importance of these concepts for the whole domain of quantum information.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**2.    Experimental Teleportation of a Quantum Controlled-NOT Gate**  
Yun-Feng Huang, Xi-Feng Ren, Yong-Sheng Zhang, Lu-Ming Duan, Guang-Can Guo  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408007  
<blockquote>
<p>
Teleportation of quantum gates is a critical step for implementation of quantum networking and teleportation-based models of quantum computation. We report an experimental demonstration of teleportation of the prototypical quantum controlled-NOT (CNOT) gate. Assisted with linear optical manipulations, photon entanglement produced from parametric down conversion, and coincidence measurements, we teleport the quantum CNOT gate from acting on local qubits to acting on remote qubits. The quality of the quantum gate teleportation is characterized through the method of quantum process tomography, with an average fidelity of 0.84 demonstrated for the teleported gate.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**3.    Dynamical Casimir effect with cylindrical waveguides**  
P. A. Maia Neto  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408012  
<blockquote>
<p>
I consider the quantum electromagnetic field in a coaxial cylindrical waveguide, such that the outer cylindrical surface has a time-dependent radius. The field propagates parallel to the axis, inside the annular region between the two cylindrical surfaces. When the mechanical frequency and the thickness of the annular region are small enough, only Transverse Electromagnetic (TEM) photons may be generated by the dynamical Casimir effect. The photon emission rate is calculated in this regime, and compared with the case of parallel plates in the limit of very short distances between the two cylindrical surfaces. The proximity force approximation holds for the transition matrix elements in this limit, but the emission rate scales quadratically with the mechanical frequency, as opposed to the cubic dependence for parallel plates.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**4.    Experimental evidence of high-resolution ghost imaging and ghost diffraction with classical thermal light**  
Davide Magatti, Fabio Ferri, Alessandra Gatti, Morten Bache, Enrico Brambilla, Luigi A. Lugiato  
Phys.Rev. Lett. 94, 183602 (2005)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408021  
<blockquote>
<p>
High-resolution ghost image and ghost diffraction experiments are performed by using a single source of thermal-like speckle light divided by a beam splitter. Passing from the image to the diffraction result solely relies on changing the optical setup in the reference arm, while leaving untouched the object arm. The product of spatial resolutions of the ghost image and ghost diffraction experiments is shown to overcome a limit which was formerly thought to be achievable only with entangled photons.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**5.    Exploiting the quantum Zeno effect to beat photon loss in linear optical quantum information processors**  
Federico M. Spedalieri, Hwang Lee, Marian Florescu, Kishore T. Kapale, Ulvi Yurtsever, Jonathan P. Dowling  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408026  
<blockquote>
<p>
We devise a new technique to enhance transmission of quantum information through linear optical quantum information processors. The idea is based on applying the Quantum Zeno effect to the process of photon absorption. By frequently monitoring the presence of the photon through a QND (quantum non-demolition) measurement the absorption is suppressed. Quantum information is encoded in the polarization degrees of freedom and is therefore not affected by the measurement. Some implementations of the QND measurement are proposed.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**6.    Quantum Computing and Hidden Variables I: Mapping Unitary to Stochastic Matrices**  
Scott Aaronson  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408035  
<blockquote>
<p>
This paper initiates the study of hidden variables from the discrete, abstract perspective of quantum computing. For us, a hidden-variable theory is simply a way to convert a unitary matrix that maps one quantum state to another, into a stochastic matrix that maps the initial probability distribution to the final one in some fixed basis. We list seven axioms that we might want such a theory to satisfy, and then investigate which of the axioms can be satisfied simultaneously. Toward this end, we construct a new hidden-variable theory that is both robust to small perturbations and indifferent to the identity operation, by exploiting an unexpected connection between unitary matrices and network flows. We also analyze previous hidden-variable theories of Dieks and Schrodinger in terms of our axioms. In a companion paper, we will show that actually sampling the history of a hidden variable under reasonable axioms is at least as hard as solving the Graph Isomorphism problem; and indeed is probably intractable even for quantum computers.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**7.    High-Fidelity Z-Measurement Error Correction of Optical Qubits**  
J. L. O'Brien, G. J. Pryde, A. G. White, T. C. Ralph  
Phys.Rev.A71:060303,2005  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408064  
<blockquote>
<p>
We demonstrate a quantum error correction scheme that protects against accidental measurement, using an encoding where the logical state of a single qubit is encoded into two physical qubits using a non-deterministic photonic CNOT gate. For the single qubit input states |0>, |1>, |0>+|1>, |0>-|1>, |0>+i|1>, and |0>-i|1> our encoder produces the appropriate 2-qubit encoded state with an average fidelity of 0.88(3) and the single qubit decoded states have an average fidelity of 0.93(5) with the original state. We are able to decode the 2-qubit state (up to a bit flip) by performing a measurement on one of the qubits in the logical basis; we find that the 64 1-qubit decoded states arising from 16 real and imaginary single qubit superposition inputs have an average fidelity of 0.96(3).
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**8.    Non-Markovian qubit dynamics in a thermal field bath: Relaxation, decoherence and entanglement**  
S. Shresta, C. Anastopoulos, A. Dragulescu, B. L. Hu  
Phys. Rev. A 71, 022109 (2005)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408084  
<blockquote>
<p>
We study the non-Markovian dynamics of a qubit made up of a two-level atom interacting with an electromagnetic field (EMF) initially at finite temperature. Unlike most earlier studies where the bath is assumed to be fixed, we study the coherent evolution of the combined qubit-EMF system, thus allowing for the back-action from the bath on the qubit and the qubit on the bath in a self-consistent manner. In this way we can see the development of quantum correlations and entanglement between the system and its environment, and how that affects the decoherence and relaxation of the system. We find non-exponential decay for both the diagonal and non-diagonal matrix elements of the qubit's reduced density matrix in the pointer basis. From the diagonal elements we see the qubit relaxes to thermal equilibrium with the bath. From the non-diagonal elements, we see the decoherence rate beginning at the usually predicted thermal rate, but changing to the zero temperature decoherence rate as the qubit and bath become entangled. These two rates are comparable, as was shown before in the zero temperature case [C. Anastopoulos and B. L. Hu, Phys. Rev. A {\bf 62} (2000) 033821]. On the entanglement of a qubit with the EMF under this type of resonant coupling we calculated, for the qubit reduced density matrix, the fidelity and the von Neumann entropy, which is a measure of the purity of the density matrix. The present more accurate non-Markovian calculations predict lower loss of fidelity and purity as compared with the Markovian results. Generally speaking, with the inclusion of quantum correlations between the qubit and its environment, the non-Markovian processes tend to slow down the drive of the system to equilibrium, prolonging the decoherence and better preserving the fidelity and purity of the system.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**9.    Photon-bunching measurement after 2x25km of standard optical fibers**  
M. Halder, S. Tanzilli, H. de Riedmatten, A. Beveratos, H. Zbinden, N. Gisin  
Phys. Rev. A 71, 042335 (2005)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408092  
<blockquote>
<p>
To show the feasibility of a long distance partial Bell-State measurement, a Hong-Ou-Mandel experiment with coherent photons is reported. Pairs of degenerate photons at telecom wavelength are created by parametric down conversion in a periodically poled lithium niobate waveguide. The photon pairs are separated in a beam-splitter and transmitted via two fibers of 25km. The wave-packets are relatively delayed and recombined on a second beam-splitter, forming a large Mach-Zehnder interferometer. Coincidence counts between the photons at the two output modes are registered. The main challenge consists in the trade-off between low count rates due to narrow filtering and length fluctuations of the 25km long arms during the measurement. For balanced paths a Hong-Ou-Mandel dip with a visibility of 47.3% is observed, which is close to the maximal theoretical value of 50% developed here. This proves the practicability of a long distance Bell state measurement with two independent sources, as e.g. required in an entanglement swapping configuration in the scale of tens of km.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**10.    Relation between coined quantum walks and quantum cellular automata**  
Masatoshi Hamada, Norio Konno, Etsuo Segawa  
RIMS Kokyuroku, No.1422, pp.1-11 (2005)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408100  
<blockquote>
<p>
Motivated by the recent work of Patel et al., this paper clarifies a connection between coined quantum walks and quantum cellular automata in a general setting. As a consequence, their result is naturally derived from the connection.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**11.    Statistically Secure Quantum Oblivious Transfer**  
Zhide Chen, Tianming Bu, Hong Zhu  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408108  
<blockquote>
<p>
This paper has been withdrawn.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**12.    Quantum Computing and Hidden Variables II: The Complexity of Sampling Histories**  
Scott Aaronson  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408119  
<blockquote>
<p>
This paper shows that, if we could examine the entire history of a hidden variable, then we could efficiently solve problems that are believed to be intractable even for quantum computers. In particular, under any hidden-variable theory satisfying a reasonable axiom called "indifference to the identity," we could solve the Graph Isomorphism and Approximate Shortest Vector problems in polynomial time, as well as an oracle problem that is known to require quantum exponential time. We could also search an N-item database using O(N^{1/3}) queries, as opposed to O(N^{1/2}) queries with Grover's search algorithm. On the other hand, the N^{1/3} bound is optimal, meaning that we could probably not solve NP-complete problems in polynomial time. We thus obtain the first good example of a model of computation that appears slightly more powerful than the quantum computing model.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**13.    Limit Theorem for Continuous-Time Quantum Walk on the Line**  
Norio Konno  
Physical Review E, Vol.72, 026113 (2005)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408140  
<blockquote>
<p>
Concerning a discrete-time quantum walk X^{(d)}_t with a symmetric distribution on the line, whose evolution is described by the Hadamard transformation, it was proved by the author that the following weak limit theorem holds: X^{(d)}_t /t \to dx / \pi (1-x^2) \sqrt{1 - 2 x^2} as t \to \infty. The present paper shows that a similar type of weak limit theorems is satisfied for a {\it continuous-time} quantum walk X^{(c)}_t on the line as follows: X^{(c)}_t /t \to dx / \pi \sqrt{1 - x^2} as t \to \infty. These results for quantum walks form a striking contrast to the central limit theorem for symmetric discrete- and continuous-time classical random walks: Y_{t}/ \sqrt{t} \to e^{-x^2/2} dx / \sqrt{2 \pi} as t \to \infty. The work deals also with issue of the relationship between discrete and continuous-time quantum walks. This topic, subject of a long debate in the previous literature, is treated within the formalism of matrix representation and the limit distributions are exhaustively compared in the two cases.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**14.    A simple example of "Quantum Darwinism": Redundant information storage in many-spin environments**  
Robin Blume-Kohout, Wojciech H. Zurek  
Foundations of Physics 35, 1857 (2005)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408147  
<blockquote>
<p>
As quantum information science approaches the goal of constructing quantum computers, understanding loss of information through decoherence becomes increasingly important. The information about a system that can be obtained from its environment can facilitate quantum control and error correction. Moreover, observers gain most of their information indirectly, by monitoring (primarily photon) environments of the "objects of interest." Exactly how this information is inscribed in the environment is essential for the emergence of "the classical" from the quantum substrate. In this paper, we examine how many-qubit (or many-spin) environments can store information about a single system. The information lost to the environment can be stored redundantly, or it can be encoded in entangled modes of the environment. We go on to show that randomly chosen states of the environment almost always encode the information so that an observer must capture a majority of the environment to deduce the system's state. Conversely, in the states produced by a typical decoherence process, information about a particular observable of the system is stored redundantly. This selective proliferation of "the fittest information" (known as Quantum Darwinism) plays a key role in choosing the preferred, effectively classical observables of macroscopic systems. The developing appreciation that the environment functions not just as a garbage dump, but as a communication channel, is extending our understanding of the environment's role in the quantum-classical transition beyond the traditional paradigm of decoherence.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**15.    Entanglement properties of multipartite entangled states under the influence of decoherence**  
M. Hein, W. Dür, H.-J. Briegel  
Phys. Rev. A 71, 032350 (2005)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408165  
<blockquote>
<p>
We investigate entanglement properties of multipartite states under the influence of decoherence. We show that the lifetime of (distillable) entanglement for GHZ-type superposition states decreases with the size of the system, while for a class of other states -namely all graph states with constant degree- the lifetime is independent of the system size. We show that these results are largely independent of the specific decoherence model and are in particular valid for all models which deal with individual couplings of particles to independent environments, described by some quantum optical master equation of Lindblad form. For GHZ states, we derive analytic expressions for the lifetime of distillable entanglement and determine when the state becomes fully separable. For all graph states, we derive lower and upper bounds on the lifetime of entanglement. To this aim, we establish a method to calculate the spectrum of the partial transposition for all mixed states which are diagonal in a graph state basis. We also consider entanglement between different groups of particles and determine the corresponding lifetimes as well as the change of the kind of entanglement with time. This enables us to investigate the behavior of entanglement under re-scaling and in the limit of large (infinite) number of particles. Finally we investigate the lifetime of encoded quantum superposition states and show that one can define an effective time in the encoded system which can be orders of magnitude smaller than the physical time. This provides an alternative view on quantum error correction and examples of states whose lifetime of entanglement (between groups of particles) in fact increases with the size of the system.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**16.    Generalized Quantum Walk in Momentum Space**  
A. Romanelli, A. Auyuanet, R. Siri, G. Abal, R. Donangelo  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408183  
<blockquote>
<p>
We consider a new model of quantum walk on a one-dimensional momentum space that includes both discrete jumps and continuous drift. Its time evolution has two stages; a Markov diffusion followed by localized dynamics. As in the well known quantum kicked rotor, this model can be mapped into a localized one-dimensional Anderson model. For exceptional (rational) values of its scale parameter, the system exhibits resonant behavior and reduce to the usual discrete time quantum walk on the line.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**17.    Ultrafast initialization and QND-readout of a spin qubit via control of nanodot-vacuum coupling**  
Ren-Bao Liu, Wang Yao, L. J. Sham  
Phys. Rev. B 72, 081306(R), (2005)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0408148  
<blockquote>
<p>
Ultrafast initialization enables fault-tolerant processing of quantum information while QND readout enables scalable quantum computation. By spatially assembling photon resonators and wave-guides around an n-doped nanodot and by temporally designing optical pump pulses, an efficient quantum pathway can be established from an electron spin to a charged exciton to a cavity photon and finally to a flying photon in the waveguide. Such control of vacuum-nanodot coupling can be exploited for ultrafast initialization and QND readout of the spin, which are particularly compatible with the optically driven spin quantum computers.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

