---
layout: arxiv
title: 200507 Filtered arXiv Papers
---

**1.    From Dirac to Diffusion: Decoherence in Quantum Lattice Gases**  
Peter J. Love, Bruce M. Boghosian  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0507022  
<blockquote>
<p>
We describe a model for the interaction of the internal (spin) degree of freedom of a quantum lattice-gas particle with an environmental bath. We impose the constraints that the particle-bath interaction be fixed, while the state of the bath is random, and that the effect of the particle-bath interaction be parity invariant. The condition of parity invariance defines a subgroup of the unitary group of actions on the spin degree of freedom and the bath. We derive a general constraint on the Lie algebra of the unitary group which defines this subgroup, and hence guarantees parity invariance of the particle-bath interaction. We show that generalizing the quantum lattice gas in this way produces a model having both classical and quantum discrete random walks as different limits. We present preliminary simulation results illustrating the intermediate behavior in the presence of weak quantum noise.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**2.    Bell states diagonal entanglement witnesses**  
M. A. Jafarizadeh, M. Rezaee, S. K. A. Seyed Yagoobi  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0507035  
<blockquote>
<p>
It has been shown that finding generic Bell states diagonal entanglement witnesses (BDEW) for $d_{1}\otimes d_{2}\otimes ....\otimes d_{n}$ systems exactly reduces to a linear programming if the feasible region be a polygon by itself and approximately obtains via linear programming if the feasible region is not a polygon. Since solving linear programming for generic case is difficult, the multi-qubits, $2\otimes N$ and $3 \otimes 3$ systems for the special case of generic BDEW for some particular choice of their parameters have been considered. In the rest of this paper we obtain the optimal non decomposable entanglement witness for $3 \otimes 3$ system for some particular choice of its parameters. By proving the optimality of the well known reduction map and combining it with the optimal and non-decomposable 3 $\otimes$ 3 BDEW (named critical entanglement witnesses) the family of optimal and non-decomposable 3 $\otimes$ 3 BDEW have also been obtained. Using the approximately critical entanglement witnesses, some 3 $\otimes$ 3 bound entangled states are so detected. So the well known Choi map as a particular case of the positive map in connection with this witness via Jamiolkowski isomorphism has been considered which approximately is obtained via linear programming.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**3.    Loss tolerance in one-way quantum computation via counterfactual error correction**  
Michael Varnava, Daniel E. Browne, Terry Rudolph  
Phys. Rev. Lett. 97, 120501 (2006)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0507036  
<blockquote>
<p>
We introduce a scheme for fault tolerantly dealing with losses (or other "leakage" errors) in cluster state computation that can tolerate up to 50% qubit loss. This is achieved passively using an adaptive strategy of measurement - no coherent measurements or coherent correction is required. Since the scheme relies on inferring information about what would have been the outcome of a measurement had one been able to carry it out, we call this "counterfactual" error correction.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**4.    Optimal focusing for maximal collection of entangled narrow-band photon pairs into single-mode fibers**  
Daniel Ljunggren, Maria Tengner  
Phys. Rev. A 72, 062301 (2005)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0507046  
<blockquote>
<p>
We present a theoretical and experimental investigation of the emission characteristics and the flux of photon pairs generated by spontaneous parametric downconversion in quasi-phase matched bulk crystals for the use in quantum communication sources. We show that, by careful design, one can attain well defined modes close to the fundamental mode of optical fibers and obtain high coupling efficiencies also for bulk crystals, these being more easily aligned than crystal waveguides. We distinguish between singles coupling, conditional coincidence, and pair coupling, and show how each of these parameters can be maximized by varying the focusing of the pump mode and the fiber-matched modes using standard optical elements. Specifically we analyze a periodically poled KTP-crystal pumped by a 532 nm laser creating photon pairs at 810 nm and 1550 nm. Numerical calculations lead to coupling efficiencies above 94% at optimal focusing, which is found by the geometrical relation L/z_R to be ~ 1 to 2 for the pump mode and ~ 2 to 3 for the fiber-modes, where L is the crystal length and z_R is the Rayleigh-range of the mode-profile. These results are independent on L. By showing that the single-mode bandwidth decreases as 1/L, we can therefore design the source to produce and couple narrow bandwidth photon pairs well into the fibers. Smaller bandwidth means both less chromatic dispersion for long propagation distances in fibers, and that telecom Bragg gratings can be utilized to compensate for broadened photon packets--a vital problem for time-multiplexed qubits. Longer crystals also yield an increase in fiber photon flux proportional to sqrt{L}, and so, assuming correct focusing, we can only see advantages using long crystals.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**5.    Symmetrization, quantum images and measurement**  
Fariel Shafee  
EJTP March 2007  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0507106  
<blockquote>
<p>
We argue that symmetrization of an incoming microstate with similar states in a sea of microstates contained in a macroscopic detector can produce an effective image, which does not contradict the no-cloning theorem, and such a combinatorial set can then be used with first passage random walk interactions suggested in an earlier work to give the right quantum mechanical weight for measured eigenvalues.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**6.    Differential phase shift quantum key distribution experiment over 105 km fibre**  
H. Takesue, E. Diamanti, T. Honjo, C. Langrock, M. M. Fejer, K. Inoue, Y. Yamamoto  
New J. Phys. 7, 232 (2005).  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0507110  
<blockquote>
<p>
Since several papers appeared in 2000, the quantum key distribution (QKD) community has been well aware that photon number splitting (PNS) attack by Eve severely limits the secure key distribution distance in BB84 QKD systems with Poissonian photon sources. In attempts to solve this problem, entanglement-based QKD, single-photon based QKD, and entanglement swapping-based QKD, have been studied in recent years. However, there are many technological difficulties that must be overcome before these schemes can become practical systems. Here we report a very simple QKD system, in which secure keys were generated over >100 km fibre for the first time. We used an alternative protocol of differential phase shift keying (DPSK) but with a Poissonian source. We analysed the security of the DPSK protocol and showed that it is robust even against hybrid attacks including collective PNS attack over consecutive pulses, intercept-and-resend (I-R) attack and beamsplitting (BS) attack, because of the non-deterministic collapse of a wavefunction in a quantum measurement. To implement this protocol, we developed a new detector for the 1.5 um band based on frequency up-conversion in a periodically poled lithium niobate (PPLN) waveguide followed by a Si avalanche photodiode (APD). The use of the new detectors increased the sifted key generation rate up to > 1 Mbit/s over 30 km fibre, which is two orders of magnitude larger than the previous record.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**7.    Foundations of a spacetime path formalism for relativistic quantum mechanics**  
Ed Seidewitz  
J.Math.Phys. 47 (2006) 112302  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0507115  
<blockquote>
<p>
Quantum field theory is the traditional solution to the problems inherent in melding quantum mechanics with special relativity. However, it has also long been known that an alternative first-quantized formulation can be given for relativistic quantum mechanics, based on the parametrized paths of particles in spacetime. Because time is treated similarly to the three space coordinates, rather than as an evolution parameter, such a spacetime approach has proved particularly useful in the study of quantum gravity and cosmology. This paper shows how a spacetime path formalism can be considered to arise naturally from the fundamental principles of the Born probability rule, superposition, and Poincar\'e invariance. The resulting formalism can be seen as a foundation for a number of previous parametrized approaches in the literature, relating, in particular, "off-shell" theories to traditional on-shell quantum field theory. It reproduces the results of perturbative quantum field theory for free and interacting particles, but provides intriguing possibilities for a natural program for regularization and renormalization. Further, an important consequence of the formalism is that a clear probabilistic interpretation can be maintained throughout, with a natural reduction to non-relativistic quantum mechanics.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**8.    Simple scheme for two-qubit Grover search in cavity QED**  
Z.J. Deng, M. Feng, K.L. Gao  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0507129  
<blockquote>
<p>
Following the proposal by F. Yamaguchi et al.[Phys. Rev. A 66, 010302 (R) (2002)], we present an alternative way to implement the two-qubit Grover search algorithm in cavity QED. Compared with F. Yamaguchi et al.'s proposal, with a strong resonant classical field added, our method is insensitive to both the cavity decay and thermal field, and doesn't require that the cavity remain in the vacuum state throughout the procedure. Moreover, the qubit definitions are the same for both atoms, which makes the experiment easier. The strictly numerical simulation shows that our proposal is good enough to demonstrate a two-qubit Grover's search with high fidelity.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**9.    A Theory of Physical Quantum Computation: The Quantum Computer Condition**  
Gerald Gilbert, Michael Hamrick, F. Javier Thayer  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0507141  
<blockquote>
<p>
In this paper we present a new unified theoretical framework that describes the full dynamics of quantum computation. Our formulation allows any questions pertaining to the physical behavior of a quantum computer to be framed, and in principle, answered. We refer to the central organizing principle developed in this paper, on which our theoretical structure is based, as the *Quantum Computer Condition* (QCC), a rigorous mathematical statement that connects the irreversible dynamics of the quantum computing machine, with the reversible operations that comprise the quantum computation intended to be carried out by the quantum computing machine. Armed with the QCC, we derive a powerful result that we call the *Encoding No-Go Theorem*. This theorem gives a precise mathematical statement of the conditions under which fault-tolerant quantum computation becomes impossible in the presence of dissipation and/or decoherence. In connection with this theorem, we explicitly calculate a universal critical damping value for fault-tolerant quantum computation. In addition we show that the recently-discovered approach to quantum error correction known as "operator quantum error-correction" (OQEC) is a special case of our more general formulation. Our approach furnishes what we will refer to as "operator quantum fault-tolerance" (OQFT). In particular, we show how the QCC allows one to derive error thresholds for fault tolerance in a completely general context. We prove the existence of solutions to a class of time-dependent generalizations of the Lindblad equation. Using the QCC, we also show that the seemingly different circuit, graph- (including cluster-) state, and adiabatic paradigms for quantum computing are in fact all manifestations of a single, universal paradigm for all physical quantum computation.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**10.    Quantum Error Correction and Fault-Tolerance**  
Daniel Gottesman  
Encyclopedia of Mathematical Physics, eds. J.-P. Francoise, G. L. Naber and S. T. Tsou, Oxford: Elsevier, 2006 (ISBN 978-0-1251-2666-3), vol. 4, pp. 196-201  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0507174  
<blockquote>
<p>
I give an overview of the basic concepts behind quantum error correction and quantum fault tolerance. This includes the quantum error correction conditions, stabilizer codes, CSS codes, transversal gates, fault-tolerant error correction, and the threshold theorem.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**11.    Non-Markovian Quantum Error Deterrence by Dynamical Decoupling in a General Environment**  
K. Shiokawa, B. L. Hu  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0507177  
<blockquote>
<p>
A dynamical decoupling scheme for the deterrence of errors in the non-Markovian (usually corresponding to low temperature, short time, and strong coupling) regimes suitable for qubits constructed out of a multilevel structure is studied. We use the effective spin-boson model (ESBM) introduced recently [K. Shiokawa and B. L. Hu, Phys. Rev. A70, 062106 (2004)] as a low temperature limit of the quantum Brownian oscillator model, where one can obtain exact solutions for a general environment with colored noises. In our decoupling scheme a train of pairs of strong pulses are used to evolve the interaction Hamiltonian instantaneously. Using this scheme we show that the dynamical decoupling method can suppress $1/f$ noise with slower and hence more accessible pulses than previously studied, but it still fails to decouple super-Ohmic types of environments.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**12.    Entanglement measurement with discrete multiple coin quantum walks**  
Jochen Endrejat, Helmut Buettner  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0507184  
<blockquote>
<p>
Within a special multi-coin quantum walk scheme we analyze the effect of the entanglement of the initial coin state. For states with a special entanglement structure it is shown that this entanglement can be meausured with the mean value of the walk, which depends on the i-concurrence of the initial coin state. Further on the entanglement evolution is investigated and it is shown that the symmetry of the probability distribution is reflected by the symmetry of the entanglement distribution.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**13.    Quantum algorithm for a generalized hidden shift problem**  
Andrew M. Childs, Wim van Dam  
Proc. 18th ACM-SIAM Symposium on Discrete Algorithms (SODA 2007), pp. 1225-1234  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0507190  
<blockquote>
<p>
Consider the following generalized hidden shift problem: given a function f on {0,...,M-1} x Z_N satisfying f(b,x)=f(b+1,x+s) for b=0,1,...,M-2, find the unknown shift s in Z_N. For M=N, this problem is an instance of the abelian hidden subgroup problem, which can be solved efficiently on a quantum computer, whereas for M=2, it is equivalent to the dihedral hidden subgroup problem, for which no efficient algorithm is known. For any fixed positive epsilon, we give an efficient (i.e., poly(log N)) quantum algorithm for this problem provided M > N^epsilon. The algorithm is based on the "pretty good measurement" and uses H. Lenstra's (classical) algorithm for integer programming as a subroutine.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**14.    Adaptive Phase Measurements in Linear Optical Quantum Computation**  
T. C. Ralph, A. P. Lund, H. M. Wiseman  
J. Opt. B: Quantum Semiclass. Opt., 7, S245-S249, 2005  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0507192  
<blockquote>
<p>
Photon counting induces an effective nonlinear optical phase shift on certain states derived by linear optics from single photons. Although this no nlinearity is nondeterministic, it is sufficient in principle to allow scalable linear optics quantum computation (LOQC). The most obvious way to encode a qubit optically is as a superposition of the vacuum and a single photon in one mode -- so-called "single-rail" logic. Until now this approach was thought to be prohibitively expensive (in resources) compared to "dual-rail" logic where a qubit is stored by a photon across two modes. Here we attack this problem with real-time feedback control, which can realize a quantum-limited phase measurement on a single mode, as has been recently demonstrated experimentally. We show that with this added measurement resource, the resource requirements for single-rail LOQC are not substantially different from those of dual-rail LOQC. In particular, with adaptive phase measurements an arbitrary qubit state $\alpha \ket{0} + \beta\ket{1}$ can be prepared deterministically.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**15.    Asymmetries in symmetric quantum walks on two-dimensional networks**  
Oliver Muelken, Antonio Volta, Alexander Blumen  
Phys. Rev. A 72, 042334 (2005)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0507198  
<blockquote>
<p>
We study numerically the behavior of continuous-time quantum walks over networks which are topologically equivalent to square lattices. On short time scales, when placing the initial excitation at a corner of the network, we observe a fast, directed transport through the network to the opposite corner. This transport is not ballistic in nature, but rather produced by quantum mechanical interference. In the long time limit, certain walks show an asymmetric limiting probability distribution; this feature depends on the starting site and, remarkably, on the precise size of the network. The limiting probability distributions show patterns which are correlated with the initial condition. This might have consequences for the application of continuous time quantum walk algorithms.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**16.    One-Dimensional Three-State Quantum Walk**  
Norio Inui, Norio Konno, Etsuo Segawa  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0507207  
<blockquote>
<p>
We study a generalized Hadamard walk in one dimension with three inner states. The particle governed by the three-state quantum walk moves, in superposition, both to the left and to the right according to the inner state. In addition to these two degrees of freedom, it is allowed to stay at the same position. We calculate rigorously the wavefunction of the particle starting from the origin for any initial qubit state, and show the spatial distribution of probability of finding the particle. In contrast with the Hadamard walk with two inner states on a line, the probability of finding the particle at the origin does not converge to zero even after infinite time steps except special initial states. This implies that the particle is trapped near the origin after long time with high probability.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**17.    A method to find quantum noiseless subsystems**  
Man-Duen Choi, David W. Kribs  
Phys. Rev. Lett., 96, 050501 (2006).  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0507213  
<blockquote>
<p>
We develop a structure theory for decoherence-free subspaces and noiseless subsystems that applies to arbitrary (not necessarily unital) quantum operations. The theory can be alternatively phrased in terms of the superoperator perspective, or the algebraic noise commutant formalism. As an application, we propose a method for finding all such subspaces and subsystems for arbitrary quantum operations. We suggest that this work brings the fundamental passive technique for error correction in quantum computing an important step closer to practical realization.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**18.    Interconvertibility of single-rail optical qubits**  
Dominic W. Berry, Alexander I. Lvovsky, Barry C. Sanders  
Optics Letters 31, 107 (2006)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0507216  
<blockquote>
<p>
We show how to convert between partially coherent superpositions of a single photon with the vacuum using linear optics and postselection based on homodyne measurements. We introduce a generalized quantum efficiency for such states and show that any conversion that decreases this quantity is possible. We also prove that our scheme is optimal by showing that no linear optical scheme with generalized conditional measurements, and with one single-rail qubit input can improve the generalized efficiency.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**19.    Universal quantum computation on the power of quantum non-demolition measurements**  
Kae Nemoto, W. J. Munro  
Phys. Lett A 344, 104 (2005)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0507232  
<blockquote>
<p>
In this paper we investigate the linear and nonlinear models of optical quantum computation and discuss their scalability and efficiency. We show how there are significantly different scaling properties in single photon computation when weak cross-Kerr nonlinearities are allowed to supplement the usual linear optical set. In particular we show how quantum non-demolition measurements are an efficient resource for universal quantum computation.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**20.    Grover's Quantum Search Algorithm and Diophantine Approximation**  
Shahar Dolev, Itamar Pitowsky, Boaz Tamir  
Physical Review A 73 022308 (2006)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0507234  
<blockquote>
<p>
In a fundamental paper [Phys. Rev. Lett. 78, 325 (1997)] Grover showed how a quantum computer can find a single marked object in a database of size N by using only O(N^{1/2}) queries of the oracle that identifies the object. His result was generalized to the case of finding one object in a subset of marked elements. We consider the following computational problem: A subset of marked elements is given whose number of elements is either M or K, M<K, our task is to determine which is the case. We show how to solve this problem with a high probability of success using only iterations of Grover's basic step (and no other algorithm). Let m be the required number of iterations; we prove that under certain restrictions on the sizes of M and K the estimation m < (2N^{1/2})/(K^{1/2}-M^{1/2}) obtains. This bound sharpens previous results and is known to be optimal up to a constant factor. Our method involves simultaneous Diophantine approximations, so that Grover's algorithm is conceptualized as an orbit of an ergodic automorphism of the torus. We comment on situations where the algorithm may be slow, and note the similarity between these cases and the problem of small divisors in classical mechanics.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**21.    Demonstration of quantum telecloning of optical coherent states**  
Satoshi Koike, Hiroki Takahashi, Hidehiro Yonezawa, Nobuyuki Takei, Samuel L. Braunstein, Takao Aoki, Akira Furusawa  
Phys. Rev. Lett. 96, 060504 (2006)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0507240  
<blockquote>
<p>
Quantum cryptography promises in-principle secure communication between two parties via a quantum channel, with the ability to discover eavesdropping when it occurs. In 1999, a telecloning protocol was invented [M. Murao {\it et al}., Phys. Rev. A {\bf 59}, 156 (1999)] that provides a way for an eavesdropper to remotely monitor a quantum cryptographic channel such that even if eavesdropping is discovered, the identity and location of the eavesdropper is guaranteed uncompromised. Here we demonstrate unconditional telecloning experimentally for the first time. We symmetrically teleclone coherent states of light, achieving a fidelity for each clone of $F = 0.58 \pm 0.01$.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**22.    Are Quantum States Exponentially Long Vectors?**  
Scott Aaronson  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0507242  
<blockquote>
<p>
I'm grateful to Oded Goldreich for inviting me to the 2005 Oberwolfach Meeting on Complexity Theory. In this extended abstract, which is based on a talk that I gave there, I demonstrate that gratitude by explaining why Goldreich's views about quantum computing are wrong.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**23.    Quantum Arnol'd diffusion in a rippled waveguide**  
V.Ya.Demikhovskii, F.M.Izrailev, A.I.Malyshev  
Phys. Lett. A 352 (2006) 491  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0507254  
<blockquote>
<p>
We study the quantum Arnol'd diffusion for a particle moving in a quasi-1D waveguide bounded by a periodically rippled surface, in the presence of the time-periodic electric field. It was found that in a deep semiclassical region the diffusion-like motion occurs for a particle in the region corresponding to a stochastic layer surrounding the coupling resonance. The rate of the quantum diffusion turns out to be less than the corresponding classical one, thus indicating the influence of quantum coherent effects. Another result is that even in the case when such a diffusion is possible, it terminates in time due to the mechanism similar to that of the dynamical localization. The quantum Arnol'd diffusion represents a new type of quantum dynamics, and may be experimentally observed in measurements of a conductivity of low-dimensional mesoscopic structures.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**24.    Quantum walk on the line: entanglement and non-local initial conditions**  
G. Abal, R. Siri, A. Romanelli, R. Donangelo  
Physical Review A 73, 042302 (2006); Physical Review A 73 069905(E) (2006); Virtual Journal of Quantum Information, 6 issue 4 (2006)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0507264  
<blockquote>
<p>
The conditional shift in the evolution operator of a quantum walk generates entanglement between the coin and position degrees of freedom. This entanglement can be quantified by the von Neumann entropy of the reduced density operator (entropy of entanglement). In the long time limit, it converges to a well defined value which depends on the initial state. Exact expressions for the asymptotic (long-time) entanglement are obtained for (i) localized initial conditions and (ii) initial conditions in the position subspace spanned by the +1 and -1 position eigenstates.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**25.    Experimental Implementation of Discrete Time Quantum Random Walk on an NMR Quantum Information Processor**  
C.A. Ryan, M. Laforest, J.C. Boileau, R. Laflamme  
Physical Review A 72, 062317 (2005)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0507267  
<blockquote>
<p>
We present an experimental implementation of the coined discrete time quantum walk on a square using a three qubit liquid state nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) quantum information processor (QIP). Contrary to its classical counterpart, we observe complete interference after certain steps and a periodicity in the evolution. Complete state tomography has been performed for each of the eight steps making a full period. The results have extremely high fidelity with the expected states and show clearly the effects of quantum interference in the walk. We also show and discuss the importance of choosing a molecule with a natural Hamiltonian well suited to NMR QIP by implementing the same algorithm on a second molecule. Finally, we show experimentally that decoherence after each step makes the statistics of the quantum walk tend to that of the classical random walk.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**26.    Engineering vortex rings and systems for controlled studies of vortex interactions in Bose-Einstein condensates**  
J. Ruostekoski, Z. Dutton  
Phys.Rev. A72 (2005) 063626  
http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0507032  
<blockquote>
<p>
We study controlled methods of preparing vortex configurations in atomic Bose-Einstein condensates and their use in the studies of fundamental vortex scattering, reconnection processes and superfluid sound emission. We explore techniques of imprinting closed vortex rings by means of coherently driving internal atomic transitions with electromagnetic fields which exhibit singular phase profiles. In particular, we show that a vortex ring can be prepared in a controlled way by two focused co-propagating Gaussian laser beams. More complex vortex systems may also be imprinted by directly superposing simpler field configurations or by programming their phase profiles on optical holograms. This provides the controlled method of studying vortex reconnections in atomic superfluids. We analyze specific examples of two merging vortex rings in a trapped two-component Rb-87 condensate. We calculate the radiated sound energy in the vortex ring reconnection process and show that the vortex relaxation and the re-distribution of sound energy can be controlled by the imprinting process. The energy is first concentrated towards the trap center and later emitted outwards as sound and transformed to surface excitations. As another such technique, we study creating pairs of 2D point vortices in Bose-Einstein condensates using a 'light roadblock' in ultra-slow light propagation. We show how this can be used to study vortex collisions in compressible superfluids and how these collisions result in energy dissipation via phonons and, sometimes, annihilation of vortex pairs.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

