---
layout: arxiv
title: 200512 Filtered arXiv Papers
---

**1.    Optimal cloning of single photon polarization by coherent feedback of beam splitter losses**  
Holger F. Hofmann, Toshiki Ide  
New J. Phys. 8 (2006) 130  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512002  
<blockquote>
<p>
Light fields can be amplified by measuring the field amplitude reflected at a beam splitter of reflectivity R and adding a coherent amplitude proportional to the measurement result to the transmitted field. By applying the quantum optical realization of this amplification scheme to single photon inputs, it is possible to clone the polarization states of photons. We show that optimal cloning of single photon polarization is possible when the gain factor of the amplification is equal to the inverse squareroot of 1-R.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**2.    Quantum superposition and entanglement of mesoscopic plasmons**  
Sylvain Fasel, Matthaeus Halder, Nicolas Gisin, Hugo Zbinden  
New J. Phys. 8, 13 (2006)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512022  
<blockquote>
<p>
Quantum superpositions and entanglement are at the heart of the quantum information science. There have been only a few investigations of these phenomena at the mesoscopic level, despite the fact that these systems are promising for quantum state storage and processing. Here we present two novel experiments with surface plasmons propagating on cm-long metallic stripe waveguides. We demonstrate that two plasmons can be entangled at remote places. In addition, we create a single plasmon in a temporal superposition state: it exists in a superposition of two widely separated moments. These quantum states, created using photons at telecom wavelength, are collectively held by a mesoscopic number of electrons coding a single quantum bit of information; They are shown to be very robust against decoherence.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**3.    Joint spectrum of photon pairs measured by coincidence Fourier spectroscopy**  
Wojciech Wasilewski, Piotr Wasylczyk, Piotr Kolenderski, Konrad Banaszek, Czeslaw Radzewicz  
Optics Letters, Vol. 31, Issue 8, pp. 1130-1132 (2006)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512039  
<blockquote>
<p>
We propose and demonstrate a method for measuring the joint spectrum of photon pairs via Fourier spectroscopy. The biphoton spectral intensity is computed from a two-dimensional interferogram of coincidence counts. The method has been implemented for a type-I downconversion source using a pair of common-path Mach-Zender interferometers based on Soleil compensators. The experimental results agree well with calculated frequency correlations that take into account the effects of coupling into single-mode fibers. The Fourier method is advantageous over scanning spectrometry when detectors exhibit high dark count rates leading to dominant additive noise.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**4.    GHz QKD at telecom wavelengths using up-conversion detectors**  
R. T. Thew, S. Tanzilli, L. Krainer, S. C. Zeller, A. Rochas, I. Rech, S. Cova, H. Zbinden, N. Gisin  
New J. Phys., Vol 8, 32 (2006)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512054  
<blockquote>
<p>
We have developed a hybrid single photon detection scheme for telecom wavelengths based on nonlinear sum-frequency generation and silicon single-photon avalanche diodes (SPADs). The SPAD devices employed have been designed to have very narrow temporal response, i.e. low jitter, which we can exploit for increasing the allowable bit rate for quantum key distribution. The wavelength conversion is obtained using periodically poled Lithium niobate waveguides (W/Gs). The inherently high efficiency of these W/Gs allows us to use a continuous wave laser to seed the nonlinear conversion so as to have a continuous detection scheme. We also present a 1.27GHz qubit repetition rate, one-way phase encoding, quantum key distribution experiment operating at telecom wavelengths that takes advantage of this detection scheme. The proof of principle experiment shows a system capable of MHz raw count rates with a QBER less than 2% and estimated secure key rates greater than 100 kbit/s over 25 km.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**5.    The classical capacity for the quantum Markov channel of continuous variables**  
Tao Qin, Meisheng Zhao, Yongde Zhang  
Physics Letters A 355, 308 (2006)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512068  
<blockquote>
<p>
Quantum communications using continuous variables are quite mature experimental techniques and the relevant theories have been extensively investigated with various methods. In this paper, we study the continuous variable quantum channels from a different angle, i.e., by exploring master equations. And we finally give explicitly the capacity of the channel we are studying. By the end of this paper, we derive the criterion for the optimal capacities of the Gaussian channel versus its fidelity.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**6.    Entanglement evaluation of non-Gaussian states generated by photon subtraction from squeezed states**  
Akira Kitagawa, Masahiro Takeoka, Masahide Sasaki, Anthony Chefles  
Phys. Rev. A 73, 042310 (2006)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512069  
<blockquote>
<p>
We consider the problem of evaluating the entanglement of non-Gaussian mixed states generated by photon subtraction from entangled squeezed states. The entanglement measures we use are the negativity and the logarithmic negativity. These measures possess the unusual property of being computable with linear algebra packages even for high-dimensional quantum systems. We numerically evaluate these measures for the non-Gaussian mixed states which are generated by photon subtraction with on/off photon detectors. The results are compared with the behavior of certain operational measures, namely the teleportation fidelity and the mutual information in the dense coding scheme. It is found that all of these results are mutually consistent, in the sense that whenever the enhancement is seen in terms of the operational measures, the negativity and the logarithmic negativity are also enhanced.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**7.    Photon number resolving detection at telecom wavelength with a charge integration photon detector**  
Mikio Fujiwara, Masahide Sasaki  
Optics letters Vol. 31, 691 (2006)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512070  
<blockquote>
<p>
We demonstrate multiphoton discrimination at telecom wavelength with the readout frequency of 40 Hz by charge integration photon detector (CIPD). The CIPD consists of an InGaAs pin photodiode and a GaAs junction field effect transistor as a pre-amplifier in a charge integration circuit, which is cooled to 4.2 K to reduce thermal noise. The quantum efficiency of the CIPD (detector itself) is 80% for 1530 nm light, and the readout noise is measured as 0.26 electrons at 40 Hz. We can construct Poisson distributions of photo-carriers with distinguished peaks at each photo-carrier number corresponding to the signal to noise ratio of about 3.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**8.    Review article: Linear optical quantum computing**  
Pieter Kok, W.J. Munro, Kae Nemoto, T.C. Ralph, Jonathan P. Dowling, G.J. Milburn  
Rev. Mod. Phys. 79, 135 (2007).  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512071  
<blockquote>
<p>
Linear optics with photon counting is a prominent candidate for practical quantum computing. The protocol by Knill, Laflamme, and Milburn [Nature 409, 46 (2001)] explicitly demonstrates that efficient scalable quantum computing with single photons, linear optical elements, and projective measurements is possible. Subsequently, several improvements on this protocol have started to bridge the gap between theoretical scalability and practical implementation. We review the original theory and its improvements, and we give a few examples of experimental two-qubit gates. We discuss the use of realistic components, the errors they induce in the computation, and how these errors can be corrected.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**9.    Quantum Filtering of Markov Signals with White Quantum Noise**  
V. P. Belavkin  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512091  
<blockquote>
<p>
Time-continuous non-anticipating quantum processes of nondemolition measurements are introduced as the dynamical realizations of the causal quasi-measurements, which are described in this paper by the adapted operator-valued probability measures on the trajectory spaces of the generalized temporal observations in quantum open systems. In particular, the notion of physically realizable quantum filter is defined and the problem of its optimization to obtain the best a posteriori quantum state is considered. It is proved that the optimal filtering of a quantum Markovian Gaussian signal with the Gaussian white quantum noise is described as a coherent Markovian linear filter generalizing the classical Kalman filter. As an example, the problem of optimal measurement of complex amplitude for a quantum Markovian open oscillator, loaded to a quantum wave communication line, is considered and solved.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**10.    Linear Optics Quantum Computation: an Overview**  
C.R. Myers, R. Laflamme  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512104  
<blockquote>
<p>
We give an overview of linear optics quantum computing, focusing on the results from the original KLM paper. First we give a brief summary of the advances made with optics for quantum computation prior to KLM. We next discuss the KLM linear optics scheme, giving detailed examples. Finally we go through quantum error correction for the LOQC theory, showing how to obtain the threshold when dealing with Z-measurement errors.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**11.    Self-Testing of Quantum Circuits**  
Frederic Magniez, Dominic Mayers, Michele Mosca, Harold Ollivier  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512111  
<blockquote>
<p>
We prove that a quantum circuit together with measurement apparatuses and EPR sources can be fully verified without any reference to some other trusted set of quantum devices. Our main assumption is that the physical system we are working with consists of several identifiable sub-systems, on which we can apply some given gates locally. To achieve our goal we define the notions of simulation and equivalence. The concept of simulation refers to producing the correct probabilities when measuring physical systems. To enable the efficient testing of the composition of quantum operations, we introduce the notion of equivalence. Unlike simulation, which refers to measured quantities (i.e., probabilities of outcomes), equivalence relates mathematical objects like states, subspaces or gates. Using these two concepts, we prove that if a system satisfies some simulation conditions, then it is equivalent to the one it is purposed to implement. In addition, with our formalism, we can show that these statements are robust, and the degree of robustness can be made explicit (unlike the robustness results of [DMMS00]). In particular, we also prove the robustness of the EPR Test [MY98]. Finally, we design a test for any quantum circuit whose complexity is linear in the number of gates and qubits, and polynomial in the required precision.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**12.    The Problem of Quantum Measurement and Entangled States: Interactions Among States and Formation of Detector Images**  
Fariel Shafee  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512147  
<blockquote>
<p>
We first review and critically examine some basic concepts and ambiguities related to quantum mechanics and quantum measurement to understand the success and shortcomings of current theories. We also touch on ideas regarding expression of variables within a complex system. Then we discuss a model for quantum measurement proposed by us, in which the quantum system is allowed to interact with its image created within the detector, followed by a first passage random walk in the Hilbert space. Definitions and ideas from the first part are used in the context of the model. In the end, we discuss the puzzling question of entanglement. We propose how borrowing concepts from our model for quantum measurement may enable us to formulate a hidden variable scenario that does not violate Bell's inequality.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**13.    Rigorous approach to the comparison between experiment and theory in Casimir force measurements**  
G.L.Klimchitskaya, F.Chen, R.S.Decca, E.Fischbach, D.E.Krause, D.Lopez, U.Mohideen, V.M.Mostepanenko  
J. Phys. A, v.39, N21, pp.6485-6493 (2006)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512161  
<blockquote>
<p>
In most experiments on the Casimir force the comparison between measurement data and theory was done using the concept of the root-mean-square deviation, a procedure that has been criticized in literature. Here we propose a special statistical analysis which should be performed separately for the experimental data and for the results of the theoretical computations. In so doing, the random, systematic, and total experimental errors are found as functions of separation, taking into account the distribution laws for each error at 95% confidence. Independently, all theoretical errors are combined to obtain the total theoretical error at the same confidence. Finally, the confidence interval for the differences between theoretical and experimental values is obtained as a function of separation. This rigorous approach is applied to two recent experiments on the Casimir effect.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**14.    Optical Quantum Cloning - a Review**  
Nicolas J. Cerf, Jaromir Fiurasek  
Progress in Optics, vol. 49, Edt. E. Wolf (Elsevier, 2006), p. 455.  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512172  
<blockquote>
<p>
After a brief introduction to the quantum no-cloning theorem and its link with the linearity and causality of quantum mechanics, the concept of quantum cloning machines is sketched, following, whenever possible, the chronology of the main results. The important classes of quantum cloning machines are reviewed, in particular state-independent and state-dependent cloning machines. The 1-to-2 cloning problem is then studied from a formal point of view, using the isomorphism between completely positive maps and operators, which leads to the so-called double-Bell ansatz. This also yields an efficient numerical approach to quantum cloning, based on semidefinite programming methods. The derivation of the optimal N-to-M universal cloning machine in d dimensions is then detailed, as well as the notion of asymmetric cloning machines. In the second part of this review, the optical implementation of cloning machines is considered. It is shown that the universal cloning of photons can be achieved by parametric amplification of light or by symmetrization via the Hong-Ou-Mandel effect. The various experimental demonstrations of quantum cloning machines are reviewed. The cloning of orthogonally polarized photons is also considered, as well as the asymmetric and phase-covariant cloning of photons. Finally, the extension of quantum cloning to continuous variables is analyzed. The optimal cloning of coherent states of light by phase-insensitive amplification is explained, as well as the experimental realization of continuous-variable quantum cloning with linear optics, measurement, and feed-forward operations.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**15.    Entanglement criteria via the uncertainty relations in su(2) and su(1,1) algebra: detection of non-Gaussian entangled states**  
Hyunchul Nha, Jaewan Kim  
Phys. Rev. A 74, 012317 (2006)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512180  
<blockquote>
<p>
We derive a class of inequalities, from the uncertainty relations of the SU(1,1) and the SU(2) algebra in conjunction with partial transposition, that must be satisfied by any separable two-mode states. These inequalities are presented in terms of the su(2) operators J_x, J_y, and the total photon number N_a+N_b. They include as special cases the inequality derived by Hillery and Zubairy [Phys. Rev. Lett. 96, 050503 (2006)], and the one by Agarwal and Biswas [New J. Phys. 7, 211 (2005)]. In particular, optimization over the whole inequalities leads to the criterion obtained by Agarwal and Biswas. We show that this optimal criterion can detect entanglement for a broad class of non-Gaussian entangled states, i.e., the su(2) minimum-uncertainty states. Experimental schemes to test the optimal criterion are also discussed, especially the one using linear optical devices and photodetectors.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**16.    Nonlocality II: Nonlocality as the dynamical origin of the non-markovian process in quantum isolated system**  
Hai-Jhun Wanng  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512182  
<blockquote>
<p>
In the previous paper, it has been proved that elastic scattering processes of two quantum particles are always accompanied with nonlocal processes. Furthermore, it is found that setting an additional Hamiltonian after the originally scattering one can help to describe the two type of processes in a united frame. Here we discuss the contribution of this additional Hamiltonian to irreversible process in isolated quantum systems. The use of the Hamiltonian can induce the non-Markovian Langevin equation, showing a complex memory effect, and thus revealing the irreversible essence of isolated system without appealing to reservoir or approximate methods (e.g. coarse grain) as usually done.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**17.    Pulsed squeezed light: simultaneous squeezing of multiple modes**  
Wojciech Wasilewski, A. I. Lvovsky, Konrad Banaszek, Czeslaw Radzewicz  
Phys. Rev. A 73, 063819 (2006)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512215  
<blockquote>
<p>
We analyze the spectral properties of squeezed light produced by means of pulsed, single-pass degenerate parametric down-conversion. The multimode output of this process can be decomposed into characteristic modes undergoing independent squeezing evolution akin to the Schmidt decomposition of the biphoton spectrum. The main features of this decomposition can be understood using a simple analytical model developed in the perturbative regime. In the strong pumping regime, for which the perturbative approach is not valid, we present a numerical analysis, specializing to the case of one-dimensional propagation in a beta-barium borate waveguide. Characterization of the squeezing modes provides us with an insight necessary for optimizing homodyne detection of squeezing. For a weak parametric process, efficient squeezing is found in a broad range of local oscillator modes, whereas the intense generation regime places much more stringent conditions on the local oscillator. We point out that without meeting these conditions, the detected squeezing can actually diminish with the increasing pumping strength, and we expose physical reasons behind this inefficiency.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**18.    One loop boundary effects: techniques and applications**  
Valery N.Marachevsky  
http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0512221  
<blockquote>
<p>
A pedagogical introduction to the heat kernel technique, zeta function and Casimir effect is presented. Several applications are considered. First we derive the high temperature asymptotics of the free energy for boson fields in terms of the heat kernel expansion and zeta function. Another application is chiral anomaly for local (MIT bag) boundary conditions. Then we rederive the Casimir energies for perfectly conducting rectangular cavities using a new technique. The new results for the attractive Casimir force acting on each of the two perfectly conducting plates inside an infinite perfectly conducting waveguide of the same cross section as the plates are presented at zero and finite temperatures.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**19.    Discrete spectrum of a pair of nonsymmetric waveguides coupled by a window**  
Denis I. Borisov  
Sbornik Mathematics. 2006. V. 197. No. 4. P. 475-504.  
http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0512066  
<blockquote>
<p>
In the paper we study the discrete spectrum of a pair of quantum two-dimensional waveguides having common boundary in which a window of finite length is cut out. We study the phenomenon of new eigenvalues emerging from the threshold of the essential spectrum when the length of window passes through critical values. We construct the asymptotics expansions for the emerging eigenvalues with respect to small parameter which is the difference between current length of the window and the nearest critical value. We also study the behaviour of the spectrum when the length of the window increases unboundedly and construct asymptotics expansions with respect to great parameter which is a length of the window.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**20.    Certain integrable system on a space associated with a quantum search algorithm**  
Yoshio Uwano, Hideitsu Hino, Yasue Ishiwatari  
http://arxiv.org/abs/nlin/0512004  
<blockquote>
<p>
On thinking of a Grover-type quantum search algorithm for an ordered tuple of multi-qubit states, a gradient system associated with the negative von-Neumann entropy is studied on the space of regular relative-configurations of multi-qubit states (SR${}^2$CMQ). The SR${}^2$CMQ emerges, through a geometric procedure, from the space of ordered tuples of multi-qubit states for the quantum search. The aim of this paper is to give a brief report on the integrability of the gradient dynamical system together with quantum information geometry of the underlying space, SR${}^2$CMQ, of that system.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

