---
layout: arxiv
title: 200602 Filtered arXiv Papers
---

**1.    Transversal laser excitation of atoms in a waveguide**  
I. Lizuain, A. Ruschhaupt, J. G. Muga  
Phys. Rev. A 74, 053608 (2006)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602013  
<blockquote>
<p>
We investigate the effect of a laser shining perpendicularly to a waveguide channeling two-level atoms. For weak transversal coupling the excitation of transverse atomic levels occurs at avoided crossings associated with "Rabi resonances" in which the Rabi frequency coincides with the transition frequency between the transverse levels.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**2.    Ramsey interferometry with ultracold atoms**  
D. Seidel, J.G. Muga  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602023  
<blockquote>
<p>
We examine the passage of ultracold two-level atoms through two separated laser fields for the nonresonant case. We show that implications of the atomic quantized motion change dramatically the behavior of the interference fringes compared to the semiclassical description of this optical Ramsey interferometer. Using two-channel recurrence relations we are able to express the double-laser scattering amplitudes by means of the single-laser ones and to give explicit analytical results. When considering slower and slower atoms, the transmission probability of the system changes considerably from an interference behavior to a regime where scattering resonances prevail. This may be understood in terms of different families of trajectories that dominate the overall transmission probability in the weak field or in the strong field limit.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**3.    7 dB quadrature squeezing at 860 nm with periodically-poled KTiOPO4**  
Shigenari Suzuki, Hidehiro Yonezawa, Fumihiko Kannari, Masahide Sasaki, Akira Furusawa  
Appl. Phys. Lett. 89, 061116 (2006)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602036  
<blockquote>
<p>
We observed -7.2 dB quadrature squeezing at 860 nm by using a sub-threshold continuous-wave pumped optical parametric oscillator with a periodically-poled KTiOPO4 crystal as a nonlinear optical medium. The squeezing level was measured with the phase of homodyne detection locked at the quadrature. The blue light induced infrared absorption was not observed in the experiment.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**4.    Entangled Markov Chains generated by Symmetric Channels**  
Takayuki Miyadera  
Infinite Dimensional Analysis, Quantum Probability and Related Topics,, Vol. 8, No. 3 (2005) 497-504  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602056  
<blockquote>
<p>
A notion of entangled Markov chain was introduced by Accardi and Fidaleo in the context of quantum random walk. They proved that, in the finite dimensional case, the corresponding states have vanishing entropy density, but they did not prove that they are entangled. In the present note this entropy result is extended to the infinite dimensional case under the assumption of finite speed of hopping. Then the entanglement problem is discussed for spin 1/2, entangled Markov chains generated by a binary symmetric channel with hopping probability $1-q$. The von Neumann entropy of these states, restricted on a sublattice is explicitly calculated and shown to be independent of the size of the sublattice. This is a new, purely quantum, phenomenon. Finally the entanglement property between the sublattices ${\cal A}(\{0,1,...,N\})$ and ${\cal A}(\{N+1\})$ is investigated using the PPT criterium. It turns out that, for $q\neq 0,1,{1/2}$ the states are non separable, thus truly entangled, while for $q=0,1,{1/2}$, they are separable.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**5.    Information-Disturbance Theorem for Mutually Unbiased Observables**  
Takayuki Miyadera, Hideki Imai  
Phys. Rev. A 73, 042317 (2006)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602057  
<blockquote>
<p>
We derive a novel version of information-disturbance theorems for mutually unbiased observables. We show that the information gain by Eve inevitably makes the outcomes by Bob in the conjugate basis not only erroneous but random.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**6.    Continuous-time quantum walks on ultrametric spaces**  
Norio Konno  
International Journal of Quantum Information, Vol.4, No.6, pp.1023-1035 (2006)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602070  
<blockquote>
<p>
We introduce a continuous-time quantum walk on an ultrametric space corresponding to the set of p-adic integers and compute its time-averaged probability distribution. It is shown that localization occurs for any location of the ultrametric space for the walk. This result presents a striking contrast to the classical random walk case. Moreover we clarify a difference between the ultrametric space and other graphs, such as cycle graph, line, hypercube and complete graph, for the localization of the quantum case. Our quantum walk may be useful for a quantum search algorithm on a tree-like hierarchical structure.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**7.    Entanglement in Graph States and its Applications**  
M. Hein, W. Dür, J. Eisert, R. Raussendorf, M. Van den Nest, H.-J. Briegel  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602096  
<blockquote>
<p>
Graph states form a rich class of entangled states that exhibit important aspects of multi-partite entanglement. At the same time, they can be described by a number of parameters that grows only moderately with the system size. They have a variety of applications in quantum information theory, most prominently as algorithmic resources in the context of the one-way quantum computer, but also in other fields such as quantum error correction and multi-partite quantum communication, as well as in the study of foundational issues such as non-locality and decoherence. In this review, we give a tutorial introduction into the theory of graph states. We introduce various equivalent ways how to define graph states, and discuss the basic notions and properties of these states. The focus of this review is on their entanglement properties. These include aspects of non-locality, bi-partite and multi-partite entanglement and its classification in terms of the Schmidt measure, the distillability properties of mixed entangled states close to a pure graph state, as well as the robustness of their entanglement under decoherence. We review some of the known applications of graph states, as well as proposals for their experimental implementation.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**8.    Theory of non-Markovian decay of a cascade atom in high-Q cavities and photonic band-gap materials**  
B.M. Garraway, B.J. Dalton  
J. Phys. B 39, S767 (2006)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602102  
<blockquote>
<p>
The dynamics of a three-level atom in a cascade configuration with both transitions coupled to a single structured reservoir of quantized field modes is treated using Laplace transform methods applied to the coupled amplitude equations. Results are also obtained from master equations by two different approaches, that is, involving either pseudomodes or quasimodes. Two different types of reservoir are considered, namely a high-Q cavity and a photonic band-gap system, in which the respective reservoir structure functions involve Lorentzians. Non-resonant transitions are included in the model. In all cases non-Markovian behaviour for the atomic system can be found, such as oscillatory decay for the high-Q cavity case and population trapping for the photonic band-gap case. In the master equation approaches, the atomic system is augmented by a small number of pseudomodes or quasimodes, which in the quasimode approach themselves undergo Markovian relaxation into a flat reservoir of continuum quasimodes. Results from these methods are found to be identical to those from the Laplace transform method including two-photon excitation of the reservoir with both emitting sequences. This shows that complicated non-Markovian decays of an atomic system into structured EM field reservoirs can be described by Markovian models for the atomic system coupled to a small number of pseudomodes or quasimodes.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**9.    Theory for quantum state of photon pairs generated from spontaneous parametric down conversion nonlinear process**  
Ruo Peng Wang, Hui Rong Zhang  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602121  
<blockquote>
<p>
We present a theory for the quantum state of photon pairs generated from spontaneous parametric down conversion nonlinear process in which the influence of the final sizes of nonlinear optical crystals on eigen optical modes is explicitly taken into consideration. We find that these photon pairs are not in entangled quantum states. Polarization correlations between the signal beam and the idler beam are explained. We also show that the two photons generated from SPDC are not spatially separated, therefore the polarization correlation between the signal and idler beams is not an evidence for quantum non-locality.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**10.    Quantum Predicative Programming**  
Anya Tafliovich, E.C.R. Hehner  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602156  
<blockquote>
<p>
The subject of this work is quantum predicative programming -- the study of developing of programs intended for execution on a quantum computer. We look at programming in the context of formal methods of program development, or programming methodology. Our work is based on probabilistic predicative programming, a recent generalisation of the well-established predicative programming. It supports the style of program development in which each programming step is proven correct as it is made. We inherit the advantages of the theory, such as its generality, simple treatment of recursive programs, time and space complexity, and communication. Our theory of quantum programming provides tools to write both classical and quantum specifications, develop quantum programs that implement these specifications, and reason about their comparative time and space complexity all in the same framework.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**11.    An Introduction to Error-Correcting Codes: From Classical to Quantum**  
Hsun-Hsien Chang  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602157  
<blockquote>
<p>
This report surveys quantum error-correcting codes. As Preskill claimed, 21st century would be the golden age of quantum error correction. Quantum channels behave differently from classical channels, so researchers face difficulties in developing robust quantum codes. Fortunately, the classical error control methods have been well developed. If we can learn many lessons from classical coding theory, we can expedite the development of quantum codes. Scientists have discovered that quantum error correction shares many concepts with classical counterpart. Both quantum and classical coding schemes add redundancy to information to protect against noises. They also have similar conditions for error detectability and correctability.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**12.    Low-lying bifurcations in cavity quantum electrodynamics**  
Michael A. Armen, Hideo Mabuchi  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602170  
<blockquote>
<p>
The interplay of quantum fluctuations with nonlinear dynamics is a central topic in the study of open quantum systems, connected to fundamental issues (such as decoherence and the quantum-classical transition) and practical applications (such as coherent information processing and the development of mesoscopic sensors/amplifiers). With this context in mind, we here present a computational study of some elementary bifurcations that occur in a driven and damped cavity quantum electrodynamics (cavity QED) model at low intracavity photon number. In particular, we utilize the single-atom cavity QED Master Equation and associated Stochastic Schrodinger Equations to characterize the equilibrium distribution and dynamical behavior of the quantized intracavity optical field in parameter regimes near points in the semiclassical (mean-field, Maxwell-Bloch) bifurcation set. Our numerical results show that the semiclassical limit sets are qualitatively preserved in the quantum stationary states, although quantum fluctuations apparently induce phase diffusion within periodic orbits and stochastic transitions between attractors. We restrict our attention to an experimentally realistic parameter regime.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**13.    Geometric phase in open systems: beyond the Markov approximation and weak coupling limit**  
X. X. Yi, D. M. Tong, L. C. Wang, L. C. Kwek, C. H. OH  
PRA 73,052103(2006)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602181  
<blockquote>
<p>
Beyond the quantum Markov approximation and the weak coupling limit, we present a general theory to calculate the geometric phase for open systems with and without conserved energy. As an example, the geometric phase for a two-level system coupling both dephasingly and dissipatively to its environment is calculated. Comparison with the results from quantum trajectory analysis is presented and discussed.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**14.    A simpler proof of zero-knowledge against quantum attacks using Grover's amplitude amplification**  
Keiji Matsumoto  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602186  
<blockquote>
<p>
Watrous had presented the first proof of zero-knowledge property of a proof system against a quantum verifier. The key of the proof is the construction of a quantum simulator. In the construction, the 'failure state' is rotated to the 'success' state by a tricky operation which is initially developped for the amplification of QMA proof systems. This manuscript presents a new and simpler construction of a simulator. In the construction, we simply amplify the success probability of a classical simulator using Grover's amplification.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**15.    Effects of non-local initial conditions in the Quantum Walk on the line**  
G. Abal, R. Donangelo, A. Romanelli, R. Siri  
Physica A Vol 371/1 pp 1-4 (2006)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602188  
<blockquote>
<p>
We report an enhancement of the decay rate of the survival probability when non-local initial conditions in position space are considered in the Quantum Walk on the line. It is shown how this interference effect can be understood analytically by using previously derived results. Within a restricted position subspace, the enhanced decay is correlated with a maximum asymptotic entanglement level while the normal decay rate corresponds to initial relative phases associated to a minimum entanglement level.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**16.    Continuous-Time Quantum Walks on Trees in Quantum Probability Theory**  
Norio Konno  
Infinite Dimensional Analysis, Quantum Probability and Related Topics, Vol.9, No.2, pp.287-297 (2006)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602213  
<blockquote>
<p>
A quantum central limit theorem for a continuous-time quantum walk on a homogeneous tree is derived from quantum probability theory. As a consequence, a new type of limit theorems for another continuous-time walk introduced by the walk is presented. The limit density is similar to that given by a continuous-time quantum walk on the one-dimensional lattice.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**17.    Three-Way Entanglement and Three-Qubit Phase Gate Based on a Coherent Six-Level Atomic System**  
Chao Hang, Yun Li, Lei Ma, Guoxiang Huang  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602215  
<blockquote>
<p>
We analyze the nonlinear optical response of a six-level atomic system under a configuration of electromagnetically induced transparency. The giant fifth-order nonlinearity generated in such a system with a relatively large cross-phase modulation effect can produce efficient three-way entanglement and may be used for realizing a three-qubit quantum phase gate. We demonstrate that such phase gate can be transferred to a Toffoli gate, facilitating practical applications in quantum information and computation.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**18.    Stationary quantum Markov process for the Wigner function**  
T. Hashimoto, M. Horibe, A. Hayashi  
J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 40 (2007) 14253-14262.  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602227  
<blockquote>
<p>
As a stochastic model for quantum mechanics we present a stationary quantum Markov process for the time evolution of the Wigner function on a lattice phase space Z_N x Z_N with N odd. By introducing a phase factor extension to the phase space, each particle can be treated independently. This is an improvement on earlier methods that require the whole distribution function to determine the evolution of a constituent particle. The process has branching and vanishing points, though a finite time interval can be maintained between the branchings. The procedure to perform a simulation using the process is presented.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**19.    Coherent exciton transport in dendrimers and continuous-time quantum walks**  
Oliver Muelken, Veronika Bierbaum, Alexander Blumen  
J. Chem. Phys. 124, 124905 (2006)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0602040  
<blockquote>
<p>
We model coherent exciton transport in dendrimers by continuous-time quantum walks (CTQWs). For dendrimers up to the second generation the coherent transport shows perfect recurrences, when the initial excitation starts at the central node. For larger dendrimers, the recurrence ceases to be perfect, a fact which resembles results for discrete quantum carpets. Moreover, depending on the initial excitation site we find that the coherent transport to certain nodes of the dendrimer has a very low probability. When the initial excitation starts from the central node, the problem can be mapped onto a line which simplifies the computational effort. Furthermore, the long time average of the quantum mechanical transition probabilities between pairs of nodes show characteristic patterns and allow to classify the nodes into clusters with identical limiting probabilities. For the (space) average of the quantum mechanical probability to be still or again at the initial site, we obtain, based on the Cauchy-Schwarz inequality, a simple lower bound which depends only on the eigenvalue spectrum of the Hamiltonian.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

