---
layout: arxiv
title: 200607 Filtered arXiv Papers
---

**1.    A Deterministic and Storable Single-Photon Source Based on Quantum Memory**  
Shuai Chen, Yu-Ao Chen, Thorsten Strassel, Zhen-Sheng Yuan, Bo Zhao, J?rg Schmiedmayer, Jian-Wei Pan  
Phys. Rev. Lett. 97, 173004 (2006)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607036  
<blockquote>
<p>
A single photon source is realized with a cold atomic ensemble ($^{87}$Rb atoms). In the experiment, single photons, which is initially stored in an atomic quantum memory generated by Raman scattering of a laser pulse, can be emitted deterministically at a time-delay in control. It is shown that production rate of single photons can be enhanced by a feedback circuit considerably while the single-photon quality is conserved. Thus our present single-photon source is well suitable for future large-scale realization of quantum communication and linear optical quantum computation.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**2.    Architecture of a Quantum Multicomputer Optimized for Shor's Factoring Algorithm**  
Rodney Doyle Van Meter III  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607065  
<blockquote>
<p>
The quantum multicomputer consists of a large number of small nodes and a qubus interconnect for creating entangled state between the nodes. The primary metric chosen is the performance of such a system on Shor's algorithm for factoring large numbers: specifically, the quantum modular exponentiation step that is the computational bottleneck. This dissertation introduces a number of optimizations for the modular exponentiation. My algorithms reduce the latency, or circuit depth, to complete the modular exponentiation of an n-bit number from O(n^3) to O(n log^2 n) or O(n^2 log n), depending on architecture. Calculations show that these algorithms are one million times and thirteen thousand times faster, when factoring a 6,000-bit number, depending on architecture. Extending to the quantum multicomputer, five different qubus interconnect topologies are considered, and two forms of carry-ripple adder are found to be the fastest for a wide range of performance parameters. The links in the quantum multicomputer are serial; parallel links would provide only very modest improvements in system reliability and performance. Two levels of the Steane [[23,1,7]] error correction code will adequately protect our data for factoring a 1,024-bit number even when the qubit teleportation failure rate is one percent.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**3.    Squeezed state purification with linear optics and feed forward**  
O. Gl?ckl, U. L. Andersen, R. Filip, W. P. Bowen, G. Leuchs  
Phys. Rev. Lett. 97, 053601 (2006)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607080  
<blockquote>
<p>
A scheme for optimal and deterministic linear optical purification of mixed squeezed Gaussian states is proposed and experimentally demonstrated. The scheme requires only linear optical elements and homodyne detectors, and allows the balance between purification efficacy and squeezing degradation to be controlled. One particular choice of parameters gave a ten-fold reduction of the thermal noise with a corresponding squeezing degradation of only 11%. We prove optimality of the protocol, and show that it can be used to enhance the performance of quantum informational protocols such as dense coding and entanglement generation.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**4.    Quantum walks with random phase shifts**  
Jozef Kosik, Vladimir Buzek, Mark Hillery  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607092  
<blockquote>
<p>
We investigate quantum walks in multiple dimensions with different quantum coins. We augment the model by assuming that at each step the amplitudes of the coin state are multiplied by random phases. This model enables us to study in detail the role of decoherence in quantum walks and to investigate the quantum-to-classical transition. We also provide classical analogues of the quantum random walks studied. Interestingly enough, it turns out that the classical counterparts of some quantum random walks are classical random walks with a memory and biased coin. In addition random phase shifts "simplify" the dynamics (the cross interference terms of different paths vanish on average) and enable us to give a compact formula for the dispersion of such walks.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**5.    Degradation of a quantum directional reference frame as a random walk**  
Stephen D. Bartlett, Terry Rudolph, Barry C. Sanders, Peter S. Turner  
J. Mod. Opt., 54, 2211 (2007)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607107  
<blockquote>
<p>
We investigate if the degradation of a quantum directional reference frame through repeated use can be modeled as a classical direction undergoing a random walk on a sphere. We demonstrate that the behaviour of the fidelity for a degrading quantum directional reference frame, defined as the average probability of correctly determining the orientation of a test system, can be fit precisely using such a model. Physically, the mechanism for the random walk is the uncontrollable back-action on the reference frame due to its use in a measurement of the direction of another system. However, we find that the magnitude of the step size of this random walk is not given by our classical model and must be determined from the full quantum description.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**6.    Scattering of two-level atoms by delta lasers: Exactly solvable models in atom optics**  
D. Seidel, J.G. Muga, G.C. Hegerfeldt  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607121  
<blockquote>
<p>
We study the scattering of two-level atoms at narrow laser fields, modeled by a $\delta$-shape intensity profile. The unique properties of these potentials allow us to give simple analytic solutions for one or two field zones. Several applications are studied: a single $\delta$-laser may serve as a detector model for atom detection and arrival-time measurements, either by means of fluorescence or variations in occupation probabilities. We show that, in principle, this ideal detector can measure the particle density, the quantum mechanical flux, arrival time distributions or local kinetic energy densities. Moreover, two spatially separated $\delta$-lasers are used to investigate quantized-motion effects on Ramsey interferometry.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**7.    Conditional Quantum Walk and Iterated Quantum Games**  
G. Abal, R. Donangelo, H. Fort  
Physica A, 387, pp 5326-5332, 2008.  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607143  
<blockquote>
<p>
Iterated bipartite quantum games are implemented in terms of the discrete-time quantum walk on the line. Our proposal allows for conditional strategies, as two rational agents make a choice from a restricted set of two-qubit unitary operations. Several frequently used classical strategies give rise to families of corresponding quantum strategies. A quantum version of the Prisoner's Dilemma in which both players use mixed strategies is presented as a specific example. Since there are now quantum walk physical implementations at a proof-of principle stage, this connection may represent a step towards the experimental realization of quantum games.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**8.    Sub-ballistic behaviour of the Quantum Kicked Rotor**  
A. Romanelli, A. Auyuanet, R. Siri, V. Micenmacher  
Phys Lett. A 365, 200 (2007)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607146  
<blockquote>
<p>
We study the resonances of the quantum kicked rotor subjected to an excitation that follows an aperiodic Fibonacci prescription. In such a case the secondary resonances show a sub-ballistic behaviour like the quantum walk with the same aperiodic prescription for the coin. The principal resonances maintain the well-known ballistic behaviour. Then the parallelism previusly established between the kicked rotor and the generalized quantum walk is retained only with the secondary resonances.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**9.    Generalized qudit Choi maps**  
M. A. Jafarizadeh, M. Rezaeen, S.Ahadpour  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607164  
<blockquote>
<p>
Following the linear programming prescription of Ref. \cite{PRA72}, the $d\otimes d$ Bell diagonal entanglement witnesses are provided. By using Jamiolkowski isomorphism, it is shown that the corresponding positive maps are the generalized qudit Choi maps. Also by manipulating particular $d\otimes d$ Bell diagonal separable states and constructing corresponding bound entangled states, it is shown that thus obtained $d\otimes d$ BDEW's (consequently qudit Choi maps) are non-decomposable in certain range of their parameters.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**10.    Implementations of quantum and classical gates with linear optical devices and photon number quantum non-demolition measurement for polarization encoded qubits**  
Joao Batista Rosa Silva, Rubens Viana Ramos  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607185  
<blockquote>
<p>
Aiming the construction of quantum computers and quantum communication systems based on optical devices, in this work we present possible implementations of quantum and classical CNOTs gates, as well an optical setup for generation and distribution of bipartite entangled states, using linear optical devices and photon number quantum non-demolition measurement.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**11.    Symmetries and noise in quantum walk**  
C.M. Chandrashekar, R. Srikanth, Subhashish Banerjee  
Phys. Rev. A . 76, 022316 (2007)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607188  
<blockquote>
<p>
We study some discrete symmetries of unbiased (Hadamard) and biased quantum walk on a line, which are shown to hold even when the quantum walker is subjected to environmental effects. The noise models considered in order to account for these effects are the phase flip, bit flip and generalized amplitude damping channels. The numerical solutions are obtained by evolving the density matrix, but the persistence of the symmetries in the presence of noise is proved using the quantum trajectories approach. We also briefly extend these studies to quantum walk on a cycle. These investigations can be relevant to the implementation of quantum walks in various known physical systems. We discuss the implementation in the case of NMR quantum information processor and ultra cold atoms.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**12.    Linear Optical Implemention of a Quantum Network for Quantum Estimation**  
Zhi-Wei Wang, Jian Li, Yun-Feng Huang, Yong-Sheng Zhang, Xi-Feng Ren, Pei Zhang, Guang-Can Guo  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607189  
<blockquote>
<p>
We present a scheme for simulating the quantum network of quantum estimation proposed by A. K. Ekert et al. [Phys. Rev. Lett. 88, 217901 (2002)]. We experimentally implement the scheme with linear optical elements. We perform overlap measurements of two single-qubit states and entanglement-witness measurements of some two-qubit states. In addition, it can also be used for entanglement quantification for some kinds of states. From the other perspective, we physically realize the positive but not completely positive map, transposition.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**13.    Radiation-pressure cooling and optomechanical instability of a micro-mirror**  
O. Arcizet, P. -F. Cohadon, T. Briant, M. Pinard, A. Heidmann  
Nature 444 (2006) 71  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607205  
<blockquote>
<p>
Recent experimental progress in table-top experiments or gravitational-wave interferometers has enlightened the unique displacement sensitivity offered by optical interferometry. As the mirrors move in response to radiation pressure, higher power operation, though crucial for further sensitivity enhancement, will however increase quantum effects of radiation pressure, or even jeopardize the stable operation of the detuned cavities proposed for next-generation interferometers. The appearance of such optomechanical instabilities is the result of the nonlinear interplay between the motion of the mirrors and the optical field dynamics. In a detuned cavity indeed, the displacements of the mirror are coupled to intensity fluctuations, which modifies the effective dynamics of the mirror. Such "optical spring" effects have already been demonstrated on the mechanical damping of an electromagnetic waveguide with a moving wall, on the resonance frequency of a specially designed flexure oscillator, and through the optomechanical instability of a silica micro-toroidal resonator. We present here an experiment where a micro-mechanical resonator is used as a mirror in a very high-finesse optical cavity and its displacements monitored with an unprecedented sensitivity. By detuning the cavity, we have observed a drastic cooling of the micro-resonator by intracavity radiation pressure, down to an effective temperature of 10 K. We have also obtained an efficient heating for an opposite detuning, up to the observation of a radiation-pressure induced instability of the resonator. Further experimental progress and cryogenic operation may lead to the experimental observation of the quantum ground state of a mechanical resonator, either by passive or active cooling techniques.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

