---
layout: arxiv
title: 200709 Filtered arXiv Papers
---

**1.    Methods for Producing Decoherence-Free States and Noiseless Subsystems Using Photonic Qutrits**  
C. Allen Bishop, Mark S. Byrd  
Physical Review A 77, 012314 (2008)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.0021  
<blockquote>
<p>
We outline a proposal for a method of preparing an encoded two-state system (logical qubit) that is immune to collective noise acting on the Hilbert space of the states supporting it. The logical qubit is comprised of three photonic three-state systems (qutrits) and is generated by the process of spontaneous parametric down conversion. The states are constructed using linear optical elements along with three down-conversion sources, and are deemed successful by the simultaneous detection of six events. We also show how to select a maximally entangled state of two qutrits by similar methods. For this maximally entangled state we describe conditions for the state to be decoherence-free which do not correspond to collective errors.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**2.    A Universal Operator Theoretic Framework for Quantum Fault Tolerance**  
Gerald Gilbert, Michael Hamrick, Yaakov S. Weinstein, Vaneet Aggarwal, A. Robert Calderbank  
http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.0128  
<blockquote>
<p>
In this paper we introduce a universal operator theoretic framework for quantum fault tolerance. This incorporates a top-down approach that implements a system-level criterion based on specification of the full system dynamics, applied at every level of error correction concatenation. This leads to more accurate determinations of error thresholds than could previously be obtained. This is demonstrated both formally and with an explicit numerical example. The basis for our approach is the Quantum Computer Condition (QCC), an inequality governing the evolution of a quantum computer. We show that all known coding schemes are actually special cases of the QCC. We demonstrate this by introducing a new, operator theoretic form of entanglement assisted quantum error correction, which incorporates as special cases all known error correcting protocols, and is itself a special case of the QCC.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**3.    Quantum Coherence Conservation by Growth in Environmental Dissipation Rate**  
Akira SaiToh, Robabeh Rahimi, Mikio Nakahara  
http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.0562  
<blockquote>
<p>
Quantum coherence conservation is shown to be achieved by a very high rate of dissipation of an environmental system coupled with a principal system. This effect is not in the list of previously-known strategies of noise suppression, such as Zeno effect, dynamical decoupling, quantum error correction code, and decoherence free subspace. An analytical solution is found for a simplified model of a single qubit coupled with an environmental single qubit dissipating rapidly. We also show examples of coherence conservation in a spin-boson linear coupling model with a numerical evaluation.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**4.    Representing probabilistic data via ontological models**  
Nicholas Harrigan, Terry Rudolph, Scott Aaronson  
http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.1149  
<blockquote>
<p>
Ontological models are attempts to quantitatively describe the results of a probabilistic theory, such as Quantum Mechanics, in a framework exhibiting an explicit realism-based underpinning. Unlike either the well known quasi-probability representations, or the "r-p" vector formalism, these models are contextual and by definition only involve positive probability distributions (and indicator functions). In this article we study how the ontological model formalism can be used to describe arbitrary statistics of a system subjected to a finite set of preparations and measurements. We present three models which can describe any such empirical data and then discuss how to turn an indeterministic model into a deterministic one. This raises the issue of how such models manifest contextuality, and we provide an explicit example to demonstrate this. In the second half of the paper we consider the issue of finding ontological models with as few ontic states as possible.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**5.    Interference of Spontaneous Emission of Light from two Solid-State Atomic Ensembles**  
M. Afzelius, M. U. Staudt, H. de. Riedmatten, C. Simon, S. R. Hastings-Simon, R. Ricken, H. Suche, W. Sohler, N. Gisin  
New Journal of Physics 9 (2007) 413  
http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.1335  
<blockquote>
<p>
We report an interference experiment of spontaneous emission of light from two distant solid-state ensembles of atoms that are coherently excited by a short laser pulse. The ensembles are Erbium ions doped into two LiNbO3 crystals with channel waveguides, which are placed in the two arms of a Mach-Zehnder interferometer. The light that is spontaneously emitted after the excitation pulse shows first-order interference. By a strong collective enhancement of the emission, the atoms behave as ideal two-level quantum systems and no which-path information is left in the atomic ensembles after emission of a photon. This results in a high fringe visibility of 95%, which implies that the observed spontaneous emission is highly coherent.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**6.    Quantum phase transition using quantum walks in an optical lattice**  
C. M. Chandrashekar, Raymond Laflamme  
Phys. Rev. A 78, 022314 (2008)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.1986  
<blockquote>
<p>
We present an approach using quantum walks (QWs) to redistribute ultracold atoms in an optical lattice. Different density profiles of atoms can be obtained by exploiting the controllable properties of QWs, such as the variance and the probability distribution in position space using quantum coin parameters and engineered noise. The QW evolves the density profile of atoms in a superposition of position space resulting in a quadratic speedup of the process of quantum phase transition. We also discuss implementation in presently available setups of ultracold atoms in optical lattices.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**7.    Generation of 10-GHz clock sequential time-bin entanglement**  
Qiang Zhang, Carsten Langrock, Hiroki Takesue, Xiuping Xie, Martin Fejer, Yoshihisa Yamamoto  
Opt. Express. 16, 3293 (2008)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.2923  
<blockquote>
<p>
This letter reports telecom-band sequential time-bin entangled photon-pair generation at a repetition rate of 10 GHz in periodically-poled reverse-proton-exchange lithium niobate waveguides based on mode demultiplexing. With up-conversion single-photon detectors, we observed a two-photon-interference-fringe visibility of 85.32% without subtraction of accidental noise contributions, which can find broad application in quantum information and quantum entanglement research.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**8.    Asymptotic entanglement in the discrete-time quantum walk**  
G. Abal, R. Donangelo, H. Fort  
Annals of the 1st Workshop on Quantum Computation and Information, pp. 189-200, UCPel, 9-11 october 2006, Pelotas, RS, Brazil  
http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.3279  
<blockquote>
<p>
The coin-position entanglement generated by the evolution operator of a discrete--time quantum walk converges, in the long time limit, to a well defined value which depends on the initial state. We also discuss the asymptotic bi-partite entanglement generated by several non-separable coin operations for two coherent quantum walkers, for which the entropy of entanglement increases logarithmically.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**9.    Effect of frequency mismatched photons in quantum information processing**  
J. Metz, S. D. Barrett  
Phys. Rev. A 77, 042323 (2008)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.3285  
<blockquote>
<p>
Many promising schemes for quantum information processing (QIP) rely on few-photon interference effects. In these proposals, the photons are treated as being indistinguishable particles. However, single photon sources are typically subject to variation from device to device. Thus the photons emitted from different sources will not be perfectly identical, and there will be some variation in their frequencies. Here, we analyse the effect of this frequency mismatch on QIP schemes. As examples, we consider the distributed QIP protocol proposed by Barrett and Kok, and Hong-Ou-Mandel interference which lies at the heart of many linear optical schemes for quantum computing. In the distributed QIP protocol, we find that the fidelity of entangled qubit states depends crucially on the time resolution of single photon detectors. In particular, there is no reduction in the fidelity when an ideal detector model is assumed, while reduced fidelities may be encountered when using realistic detectors with a finite response time. We obtain similar results in the case of Hong-Ou-Mandel interference -- with perfect detectors, a modified version of quantum interference is seen, and the visibility of the interference pattern is reduced as the detector time resolution is reduced. Our findings indicate that problems due to frequency mismatch can be overcome, provided sufficiently fast detectors are available.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**10.    Equal Superposition Transformations and Quantum Random Walks**  
Preeti Parashar  
http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.3406  
<blockquote>
<p>
The largest ensemble of qubits which satisfy the general transformation of equal superposition is obtained by different methods, namely, linearity, no-superluminal signalling and non-increase of entanglement under LOCC. We also consider the associated quantum random walk and show that all unitary balanced coins give the same asymmetric spatial probability distribution. It is further illustrated that unbalanced coins, upon appropriate superposition, lead to new unbiased walks which have no classical analogues.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**11.    Generation of Fourier transform limited heralded single photons**  
Alfred B. U'Ren, Yasser Jeronimo-Moreno, Jose H. Garcia-Gracia  
PHYSICAL REVIEW A 75, 023810 (2007)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.3517  
<blockquote>
<p>
In this paper we study the spectral (temporal) properties of heralded single photon wavepackets, triggered by the detection of an idler photon in the process of parametric downconversion. The generated single photons are studied within the framework of the chronocyclic Wigner function, from which the single photon spectral width and temporal duration can be computed. We derive specific conditions on the two-photon joint spectral amplitude which result in both pure and Fourier- transform limited heralded single photons. Likewise, we present specific source geometries which lead to the fulfilment of these conditions and show that one of these geometries leads, for a given pump bandwidth, to the temporally shortest possible heralded single photon wavepackets.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**12.    Robustness of operator quantum error correction with respect to initialization errors**  
Ognyan Oreshkov  
Phys. Rev. A 77, 032333 (2008)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.3533  
<blockquote>
<p>
In the theory of operator quantum error correction (OQEC), the notion of correctability is defined under the assumption that states are perfectly initialized inside a particular subspace, a factor of which (a subsystem) contains the protected information. If the initial state of the system does not belong entirely to the subspace in question, the restriction of the state to the otherwise correctable subsystem may not remain invariant after the application of noise and error correction. It is known that in the case of decoherence-free subspaces and subsystems (DFSs) the condition for perfect unitary evolution inside the code imposes more restrictive conditions on the noise process if one allows imperfect initialization. It was believed that these conditions are necessary if DFSs are to be able to protect imperfectly encoded states from subsequent errors. By a similar argument, general OQEC codes would also require more restrictive error-correction conditions for the case of imperfect initialization. In this study, we examine this requirement by looking at the errors on the encoded state. In order to quantitatively analyze the errors in an OQEC code, we introduce a measure of the fidelity between the encoded information in two states for the case of subsystem encoding. A major part of the paper concerns the definition of the measure and the derivation of its properties. In contrast to what was previously believed, we obtain that more restrictive conditions are not necessary neither for DFSs nor for general OQEC codes. This is because the effective noise that can arise inside the code as a result of imperfect initialization is such that it can only increase the fidelity of an imperfectly encoded state with a perfectly encoded one.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**13.    Error correction optimisation in the presence of X/Z asymmetry**  
Z. W. E. Evans, A. M. Stephens, J. H. Cole, L. C. L. Hollenberg  
http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.3875  
<blockquote>
<p>
By taking into account the physical nature of quantum errors it is possible to improve the efficiency of quantum error correction. Here we consider an optimisation to conventional quantum error correction which involves exploiting asymmetries in the rates of X and Z errors by reducing the rate of X correction. As an example, we apply this optimisation to the [[7,1,3]] code and make a comparison with conventional quantum error correction. After two levels of concatenated error correction we demonstrate a circuit depth reduction of at least 43% and reduction in failure rate of at least 67%. This improvement requires no additional resources and the required error asymmetry is likely to be present in most physical quantum computer architectures.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**14.    Geometric resonance cooling of polarizable particles in an optical waveguide**  
G. Szirmai, P. Domokos  
Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, 213602 (2007)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.4260  
<blockquote>
<p>
In the radiation field of an optical waveguide, the Rayleigh scattering of photons is shown to result in a strongly velocity-dependent force on atoms. The pump field, which is injected in the fundamental branch of the waveguide, is favorably scattered by a moving atom into one of the transversely excited branches of propagating modes. All fields involved are far detuned from any resonances of the atom. For a simple polarizable particle, a linear friction force coefficient comparable to that of cavity cooling can be achieved.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**15.    Reduced State Uniquely Defines Groverian Measure of Original Pure State**  
Eylee Jung, Mi-Ra Hwang, Hungsoo Kim, Min-Soo Kim, DaeKil Park, Jin-Woo Son, Sayatnova Tamaryan  
Phys. Rev. A 77, 062317 (2008)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.4292  
<blockquote>
<p>
Groverian and Geometric entanglement measures of the n-party pure state are expressed by the (n-1)-party reduced state density operator directly. This main theorem derives several important consequences. First, if two pure n-qudit states have reduced states of (n-1)-qudits, which are equivalent under local unitary(LU) transformations, then they have equal Groverian and Geometric entanglement measures. Second, both measures have an upper bound for pure states. However, this upper bound is reached only for two qubit systems. Third, it converts effectively the nonlinear eigenvalue problem for three qubit Groverian measure into linear eigenvalue equations. Some typical solutions of these linear equations are written explicitly and the features of the general solution are discussed in detail.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**16.    Isolated Eigenvalues of the Ferromagnetic Spin-J XXZ Chain with Kink Boundary Conditions**  
Jaideep Mulherkar, Bruno Nachtergaele, Robert Sims, Shannon Starr  
J. Stat. Mech. (2008) P01016  
http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.1733  
<blockquote>
<p>
We investigate the low-lying excited states of the spin J ferromagnetic XXZ chain with Ising anisotropy Delta and kink boundary conditions. Since the third component of the total magnetization, M, is conserved, it is meaningful to study the spectrum for each fixed value of M. We prove that for J>= 3/2 the lowest excited eigenvalues are separated by a gap from the rest of the spectrum, uniformly in the length of the chain. In the thermodynamic limit, this means that there are a positive number of excitations above the ground state and below the essential spectrum.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

