---
layout: arxiv
title: 200710 Filtered arXiv Papers
---

**1.    Uncertainty Relation for the Discrete Fourier Transform**  
Serge Massar, Philippe Spindel  
Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 190401 (2008)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/0710.0723  
<blockquote>
<p>
We derive an uncertainty relation for two unitary operators which obey a commutation relation of the form UV=exp[i phi] VU. Its most important application is to constrain how much a quantum state can be localised simultaneously in two mutually unbiased bases related by a Discrete Fourier Transform. It provides an uncertainty relation which smoothly interpolates between the well known cases of the Pauli operators in 2 dimensions and the continuous variables position and momentum. This work also provides an uncertainty relation for modular variables, and could find applications in signal processing. In the finite dimensional case the minimum uncertainty states, discrete analogues of coherent and squeezed states, are minimum energy solutions of Harper's equation, a discrete version of the Harmonic oscillator equation.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**2.    Preparation of entangled states of two photons in several spatial modes**  
Karel Lemr, Jaromir Fiurasek  
Phys. Rev. A 77, 023802 (2008).  
http://arxiv.org/abs/0710.0980  
<blockquote>
<p>
We describe a protocol capable of preparing an arbitrary state of two photons in several spatial modes using pairs of photons generated by spontaneous parametric down-conversion, linear optical elements and single-photon detectors or post-selection. The protocol involves unitary and non-unitary transformations realizable by beam splitters and phase shifters. Non-unitary transformations are implemented by attenuation filters. The protocol contains several optimization capabilities with the goal of improving overall probability of its success. We also show how entangled two-photon states required for quantum computing with linear optics can be prepared using a very simple and feasible scheme.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**3.    Channel-Adapted Quantum Error Correction for the Amplitude Damping Channel**  
Andrew S. Fletcher, Peter W. Shor, Moe Z. Win  
http://arxiv.org/abs/0710.1052  
<blockquote>
<p>
We consider error correction procedures designed specifically for the amplitude damping channel. We analyze amplitude damping errors in the stabilizer formalism. This analysis allows a generalization of the [4,1] `approximate' amplitude damping code of quant-ph/9704002. We present this generalization as a class of [2(M+1),M] codes and present quantum circuits for encoding and recovery operations. We also present a [7,3] amplitude damping code based on the classical Hamming code. All of these are stabilizer codes whose encoding and recovery operations can be completely described with Clifford group operations. Finally, we describe optimization options in which recovery operations may be further adapted according to the damping probability gamma.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**4.    Measurements in the Lévy quantum walk**  
Alejandro Romanelli  
Phys. Rev. A 76, 054306 (2007)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/0710.1320  
<blockquote>
<p>
We study the quantum walk subjected to measurements with a L\'evy waiting-time distribution. We find that the system has a sub-ballistic behavior instead of a diffusive one. We obtain an analytical expression for the exponent of the power law of the variance as a function of the characteristic parameter of the L\'evy distribution.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**5.    Hamiltonian Formulation of Quantum Error Correction and Correlated Noise: The Effects Of Syndrome Extraction in the Long Time Limit**  
E. Novais, Eduardo R. Mucciolo, Harold U. Baranger  
Phys. Rev. A 78, 012314 (2008)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/0710.1624  
<blockquote>
<p>
We analyze the long time behavior of a quantum computer running a quantum error correction (QEC) code in the presence of a correlated environment. Starting from a Hamiltonian formulation of realistic noise models, and assuming that QEC is indeed possible, we find formal expressions for the probability of a faulty path and the residual decoherence encoded in the reduced density matrix. Systems with non-zero gate times (``long gates'') are included in our analysis by using an upper bound on the noise. In order to introduce the local error probability for a qubit, we assume that propagation of signals through the environment is slower than the QEC period (hypercube assumption). This allows an explicit calculation in the case of a generalized spin-boson model and a quantum frustration model. The key result is a dimensional criterion: If the correlations decay sufficiently fast, the system evolves toward a stochastic error model for which the threshold theorem of fault-tolerant quantum computation has been proven. On the other hand, if the correlations decay slowly, the traditional proof of this threshold theorem does not hold. This dimensional criterion bears many similarities to criteria that occur in the theory of quantum phase transitions.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**6.    Error correction in ensemble registers for quantum repeaters and quantum computers**  
Etienne Brion, Line Hjortshoj Pedersen, Mark Saffman, Klaus Molmer  
Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 110506 (2008)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/0710.1717  
<blockquote>
<p>
We propose to use a collective excitation blockade mechanism to identify errors that occur due to disturbances of single atoms in ensemble quantum registers where qubits are stored in the collective population of different internal atomic states. A simple error correction procedure and a simple decoherence-free encoding of ensemble qubits in the hyperfine states of alkali atoms are presented.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**7.    Atom detection and photon production in a scalable, open, optical microcavity**  
M. Trupke, J. Goldwin, B. Darquié, G. Dutier, S. Eriksson, J. Ashmore, E. A. Hinds  
Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, 063601 (2007)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/0710.2116  
<blockquote>
<p>
A microfabricated Fabry-Perot optical resonator has been used for atom detection and photon production with less than 1 atom on average in the cavity mode. Our cavity design combines the intrinsic scalability of microfabrication processes with direct coupling of the cavity field to single-mode optical waveguides or fibers. The presence of the atom is seen through changes in both the intensity and the noise characteristics of probe light reflected from the cavity input mirror. An excitation laser passing transversely through the cavity triggers photon emission into the cavity mode and hence into the single-mode fiber. These are first steps towards building an optical microcavity network on an atom chip for applications in quantum information processing.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**8.    Quantum central limit theorem for continuous-time quantum walks on odd graphs in quantum probability theory**  
S. Salimi  
Int J Theor Phys (2008) 47: 3298--3309  
http://arxiv.org/abs/0710.3043  
<blockquote>
<p>
The method of the quantum probability theory only requires simple structural data of graph and allows us to avoid a heavy combinational argument often necessary to obtain full description of spectrum of the adjacency matrix. In the present paper, by using the idea of calculation of the probability amplitudes for continuous-time quantum walk in terms of the quantum probability theory, we investigate quantum central limit theorem for continuous-time quantum walks on odd graphs.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**9.    Simulation of Grover's quantum search algorithm in a Ising nuclear spin chain quantum computer with first and second nearest neighbour couplings**  
G. V. Lopez, T. Gorin, L. Lara  
J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 41, 055504 (2008)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/0710.3196  
<blockquote>
<p>
We implement Grover's quantum search algorithm on a nuclear spin chain quantum computer, taking into Ising type interactions between nearest and second nearest neighbours into account. The performance of the realisation of the algorithm is studied by numerical simulations with four spins. We determine the temporal behaviour of the fidelity during the algorithm, and we compute the final fidelity as a function of the Rabi frequency. For the latter, we obtained pronounced maxima at frequencies which fulfil the condition of the (2\pi k)-method with respect to the second nearest neighbour interactions.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**10.    Universality and programmability of quantum computers**  
Willem Fouche', Johannes Heidema, Glyn Jones, Petrus H. Potgieter  
http://arxiv.org/abs/0710.3329  
<blockquote>
<p>
Manin, Feynman, and Deutsch have viewed quantum computing as a kind of universal physical simulation procedure. Much of the writing about quantum logic circuits and quantum Turing machines has shown how these machines can simulate an arbitrary unitary transformation on a finite number of qubits. The problem of universality has been addressed most famously in a paper by Deutsch, and later by Bernstein and Vazirani as well as Kitaev and Solovay. The quantum logic circuit model, developed by Feynman and Deutsch, has been more prominent in the research literature than Deutsch's quantum Turing machines. Quantum Turing machines form a class closely related to deterministic and probabilistic Turing machines and one might hope to find a universal machine in this class. A universal machine is the basis of a notion of programmability. The extent to which universality has in fact been established by the pioneers in the field is examined and this key notion in theoretical computer science is scrutinised in quantum computing by distinguishing various connotations and concomitant results and problems.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**11.    Inefficient quantum walks on networks: the role of the density of states**  
Oliver Muelken  
http://arxiv.org/abs/0710.3453  
<blockquote>
<p>
We show by general arguments that networks whose density of states contains few highly degenerate eigenvalues result in inefficient performances of continuous-time quantum walks (CTQW) over these networks, while systems whose eigenvalues all have the same degeneracy lead to very efficient transport. We exemplify our results by considering CTQW and, for comparison, its classical counterpart, continuous-time random walks, over simple structures, whose eigenvalues and eigenstates can be calculated analytically. Extensions to more complicated, hyper-branched networks are discussed.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**12.    Realization of two Fourier-limited solid-state single-photon sources**  
R. Lettow, V. Ahtee, R. Pfab, A. Renn, E. Ikonen, S. Gotzinger, V. Sandoghdar  
http://arxiv.org/abs/0710.3516  
<blockquote>
<p>
We demonstrate two solid-state sources of indistinguishable single photons. High resolution laser spectroscopy and optical microscopy were combined at T = 1.4 K to identify individual molecules in two independent microscopes. The Stark effect was exploited to shift the transition frequency of a given molecule and thus obtain single photon sources with perfect spectral overlap. Our experimental arrangement sets the ground for the realization of various quantum interference and information processing experiments.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**13.    Coherent transfer of light polarization to electron spins in a semiconductor**  
Hideo Kosaka, Hideki Shigyou, Yasuyoshi Mitsumori, Yoshiaki Rikitake, Hiroshi Imamura, Takeshi Kutsuwa, Koichiro Arai, Keiichi Edamatsu  
Phys. Rev. Lett., 100, 096602 (2008).  
http://arxiv.org/abs/0710.3847  
<blockquote>
<p>
We demonstrate that the superposition of light polarization states is coherently transferred to electron spins in a semiconductor quantum well. By using time-resolved Kerr rotation we observe the initial phase of Larmor precession of electron spins whose coherence is transferred from light. To break the electron-hole spin entanglement, we utilized the big discrepancy between the transverse g-factors of electrons and light holes. The result encourages us to make a quantum media converter between flying photon qubits and stationary electron spin qubits in semiconductors.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**14.    On the Chernoff distance for asymptotic LOCC discrimination of bipartite quantum states**  
William Matthews, Andreas Winter  
Communications in Mathematical Physics, Volume 285, Number 1, 161-174 (2008)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/0710.4113  
<blockquote>
<p>
Motivated by the recent discovery of a quantum Chernoff theorem for asymptotic state discrimination, we investigate the distinguishability of two bipartite mixed states under the constraint of local operations and classical communication (LOCC), in the limit of many copies. While for two pure states a result of Walgate et al. shows that LOCC is just as powerful as global measurements, data hiding states (DiVincenzo et al.) show that locality can impose severe restrictions on the distinguishability of even orthogonal states. Here we determine the optimal error probability and measurement to discriminate many copies of particular data hiding states (extremal d x d Werner states) by a linear programming approach. Surprisingly, the single-copy optimal measurement remains optimal for n copies, in the sense that the best strategy is measuring each copy separately, followed by a simple classical decision rule. We also put a lower bound on the bias with which states can be distinguished by separable operations.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**15.    Belief propagation algorithm for computing correlation functions in finite-temperature quantum many-body systems on loopy graphs**  
David Poulin, Ersen Bilgin  
Phys. Rev. A 77 052318 (2008)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/0710.4304  
<blockquote>
<p>
Belief propagation -- a powerful heuristic method to solve inference problems involving a large number of random variables -- was recently generalized to quantum theory. Like its classical counterpart, this algorithm is exact on trees when the appropriate independence conditions are met and is expected to provide reliable approximations when operated on loopy graphs. In this paper, we benchmark the performances of loopy quantum belief propagation (QBP) in the context of finite-tempereture quantum many-body physics. Our results indicate that QBP provides reliable estimates of the high-temperature correlation function when the typical loop size in the graph is large. As such, it is suitable e.g. for the study of quantum spin glasses on Bethe lattices and the decoding of sparse quantum error correction codes.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**16.    The EPR experiment in the energy-based stochastic reduction framework**  
J. Silman, S. Machnes, S. Shnider, L. P. Horwitz, A. Belenkiy  
J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 41, 255303 (2008)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/0710.4894  
<blockquote>
<p>
We consider the EPR experiment in the energy-based stochastic reduction framework. A gedanken set up is constructed to model the interaction of the particles with the measurement devices. The evolution of particles' density matrix is analytically derived. We compute the dependence of the disentanglement rate on the parameters of the model, and study the dependence of the outcome probabilities on the noise trajectories. Finally, we argue that these trajectories can be regarded as non-local hidden variables.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**17.    Entangling the optical frequency comb: simultaneous generation of multiple 2x2 and 2x3 continuous-variable cluster states in a single optical parametric oscillator**  
Hussain Zaidi, Nicolas C. Menicucci, Steven T. Flammia, Russell Bloomer, Matthew Pysher, Olivier Pfister  
Laser Physics 18(5):659, May 2008  
http://arxiv.org/abs/0710.4980  
<blockquote>
<p>
We report on our research effort to generate large-scale multipartite optical-mode entanglement using as few physical resources as possible. We have previously shown that cluster- and GHZ-type N-partite continuous-variable entanglement can be obtained in an optical resonator that contains a suitably designed second-order nonlinear optical medium, pumped by at most O(N^2) fields. In this paper, we show that the frequency comb of such a resonator can be entangled into an arbitrary number of independent 2x2 and 2x3 continuous-variable cluster states by a single optical parametric oscillator pumped by just a few optical modes.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**18.    Paraxial Hamiltonian for photons in two-dimensional photonic crystal microstructures**  
D. L. Boiko  
http://arxiv.org/abs/0710.5287  
<blockquote>
<p>
New solid-state physics based approach is developed for analysis of the paraxial light propagation in two-dimensional (2D) photonic lattices of coupled dielectric waveguides or microcavities. In particular, using Maxwell's equations, a non-Hermitian Hamiltonian eigenproblem with respect to the spinor wave function of a photon is obtained for energy-dissipating photonic microstructures. The Hamiltonian is suitable for almost the entire subclass of 2D structures encompassing arrays of semiconductor microcavities and microstructured photonic crystal fibers, characterized by light propagating mostly normal to the periodic lattice plane. Methods of numerical solution are discussed and the formalism is applied to a square array of coupled semiconductor microcavities, revealing reach possibilities for tailoring photonic band structure both in the photon energy and photon lifetime energy broadening domains. In particular, a feasibility to open a double photonic crystal band gap simultaneously in the energy and lifetime energy broadening domains is demonstrated.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**19.    Non-Markovian continuous quantum measurement of retarded observables**  
Lajos Diósi  
Phys.Rev.Lett. 100 (2008) 080401-(4)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/0710.5489  
<blockquote>
<p>
We reconsider the non-Markovian time-continuous measurement of a Heisenberg observable x and show for the first time that it can be realized by an infinite set of entangled von Neumann detectors. The concept of continuous read-out is introduced and used to re-derive the non-Markovian stochastic Schrodinger equation. We can prove that, contrary to recent doubts, the resulting non-Markovian quantum trajectories are true single system trajectories and correspond to the continuous measurement of a retarded functional of x. However, the generic non-Markovian trajectories are mixed state trajectories. This version merges an Erratum [PRL, in print] with my Letter [PRL 100, 080401 (2008)], some corrections follow directly from the recent criticism by Wiseman and Gambetta, further corrections restore the validity of my Letter. Contrary to my suggestion there, the given continuous measurement schemes cannot yield pure state trajectories but mixed-state ones. Yet, it is possible to retain my claim that the non-Markovian stochastic Schrodinger equation describes true time-continuous measurement - with delay and retrodiction.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**20.    Rydberg excitation of Bose-Einstein condensates**  
Rolf Heidemann, Ulrich Raitzsch, Vera Bendkowsky, Bj?rn Butscher, Robert L?w, Tilman Pfau  
Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 033601 (2008)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/0710.5622  
<blockquote>
<p>
Rydberg atoms provide a wide range of possibilities to tailor interactions in a quantum gas. Here we report on Rydberg excitation of Bose-Einstein condensed 87Rb atoms. The Rydberg fraction was investigated for various excitation times and temperatures above and below the condensation temperature. The excitation is locally blocked by the van der Waals interaction between Rydberg atoms to a density-dependent limit. Therefore the abrupt change of the thermal atomic density distribution to the characteristic bimodal distribution upon condensation could be observed in the Rydberg fraction. The observed features are reproduced by a simulation based on local collective Rydberg excitations.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**21.    Optimal approach to quantum communication using dynamic programming**  
Liang Jiang, Jacob M. Taylor, Navin Khaneja, Mikhail D. Lukin  
PNAS 104, 17291-17296, 2007  
http://arxiv.org/abs/0710.5808  
<blockquote>
<p>
Reliable preparation of entanglement between distant systems is an outstanding problem in quantum information science and quantum communication. In practice, this has to be accomplished via noisy channels (such as optical fibers) that generally result in exponential attenuation of quantum signals at large distances. A special class of quantum error correction protocols--quantum repeater protocols--can be used to overcome such losses. In this work, we introduce a method for systematically optimizing existing protocols and developing new, more efficient protocols. Our approach makes use of a dynamic programming-based searching algorithm, the complexity of which scales only polynomially with the communication distance, letting us efficiently determine near-optimal solutions. We find significant improvements in both the speed and the final state fidelity for preparing long distance entangled states.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**22.    Study of continuous-time quantum walks on quotient graphs via quantum probability theory**  
S. Salimi  
International Journal of Quantum Information, Vol. 6, No. 4 (2008) 945--957.  
http://arxiv.org/abs/0710.5813  
<blockquote>
<p>
In the present paper, we study the continuous-time quantum walk on quotient graphs. On such graphs, there is a straightforward reduction of problem to a subspace that can be considerably smaller than the original one. Along the lines of reductions, by using the idea of calculation of the probability amplitudes for continuous-time quantum walk in terms of the spectral distribution associated with the adjacency matrix of graphs [Jafarizadeh and Salimi (Ann. Phys 322(2007))], we show the continuous-time quantum walk on original graph $\Gamma$ induces a continuous-time quantum walk on quotient graph $\Gamma_H$. Finally, for example we investigate continuous-time quantum walk on some quotient Cayley graphs.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**23.    Analysis of quantum semigroups with GKS-Lindblad generators I. Simple generators**  
Bernhard Baumgartner, Heide Narnhofer, Walter Thirring  
J.Phys.A 41 (2008) 065201  
http://arxiv.org/abs/0710.5385  
<blockquote>
<p>
Semigroups describing the time evolution of open quantum systems in finite dimensional spaces have generators of a special form, known as Lindblad generators. The simple generators, characterized by only one operator, are analyzed. The complete set of all the stationary states is presented in detail, including a formula to calculate a stationary state from the generating operator. Also the opposite task can be fulfilled, to construct an evolution leading to a prescribed stationary state.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**24.    A General Strategy for Physics-Based Model Validation Illustrated with Earthquake Phenomenology, Atmospheric Radiative Transfer, and Computational Fluid Dynamics**  
Didier Sornette, Anthony B. Davis, James R. Kamm, Kayo Ide  
http://arxiv.org/abs/0710.0317  
<blockquote>
<p>
Validation is often defined as the process of determining the degree to which a model is an accurate representation of the real world from the perspective of its intended uses. Validation is crucial as industries and governments depend increasingly on predictions by computer models to justify their decisions. In this article, we survey the model validation literature and propose to formulate validation as an iterative construction process that mimics the process occurring implicitly in the minds of scientists. We thus offer a formal representation of the progressive build-up of trust in the model, and thereby replace incapacitating claims on the impossibility of validating a given model by an adaptive process of constructive approximation. This approach is better adapted to the fuzzy, coarse-grained nature of validation. Our procedure factors in the degree of redundancy versus novelty of the experiments used for validation as well as the degree to which the model predicts the observations. We illustrate the new methodology first with the maturation of Quantum Mechanics as the arguably best established physics theory and then with several concrete examples drawn from some of our primary scientific interests: a cellular automaton model for earthquakes, an anomalous diffusion model for solar radiation transport in the cloudy atmosphere, and a computational fluid dynamics code for the Richtmyer-Meshkov instability. This article is an augmented version of Sornette et al. [2007] that appeared in Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences in 2007 (doi: 10.1073/pnas.0611677104), with an electronic supplement at URL this http URL Sornette et al. [2007] is also available in preprint form at physics/0511219.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

