---
layout: arxiv
title: 200807 Filtered arXiv Papers
---

**1.    A study of heuristic guesses for adiabatic quantum computation**  
Alejandro Perdomo, Salvador E. Venegas-Andraca, Alán Aspuru-Guzik  
http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.0354  
<blockquote>
<p>
Adiabatic quantum computation (AQC) is a universal model for quantum computation which seeks to transform the initial ground state of a quantum system into a final ground state encoding the answer to a computational problem. AQC initial Hamiltonians conventionally have a uniform superposition as ground state. We diverge from this practice by introducing a simple form of heuristics: the ability to start the quantum evolution with a state which is a guess to the solution of the problem. With this goal in mind, we explain the viability of this approach and the needed modifications to the conventional AQC (CAQC) algorithm. By performing a numerical study on hard-to-satisfy 6 and 7 bit random instances of the satisfiability problem (3-SAT), we show how this heuristic approach is possible and we identify that the performance of the particular algorithm proposed is largely determined by the Hamming distance of the chosen initial guess state with respect to the solution. Besides the possibility of introducing educated guesses as initial states, the new strategy allows for the possibility of restarting a failed adiabatic process from the measured excited state as opposed to restarting from the full superposition of states as in CAQC. The outcome of the measurement can be used as a more refined guess state to restart the adiabatic evolution. This concatenated restart process is another heuristic that the CAQC strategy cannot capture.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**2.    Gate complexity using Dynamic Programming**  
Srinivas Sridharan, Mile Gu, Matthew R. James  
Phys. Rev. A 78, 052327 (2008)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.0507  
<blockquote>
<p>
The relationship between efficient quantum gate synthesis and control theory has been a topic of interest in the quantum control literature. Motivated by this work, we describe in the present article how the dynamic programming technique from optimal control may be used for the optimal synthesis of quantum circuits. We demonstrate simulation results on an example system on SU(2), to obtain plots related to the gate complexity and sample paths for different logic gates.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**3.    Polarization-Mixing in Optical Lattices with Uniaxial Anisotropy**  
Hashem Zoubi, Helmut Ritsch  
Journal of Physics B 42, 015501 (2009).  
http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.0761  
<blockquote>
<p>
We study optical excitations of an ultracold gas in an optical lattice in the Mott insulator case and with anisotropic properties. The anisotropy is induced by an oriented transition dipole generated by optical pumping and external static fields, and is of the type of uniaxial crystals. Within a cavity, the electronic excitations and the cavity photons of both TE and TM polarizations are coherently mixed to form two polariton branches. Also a photonic branch appears which decouples from the electronic transitions. The photon polarization mixing can be observed by linear optical spectra. For example, for an incident field of TE polarization we obtain TE and TM transmitted and reflected fields. Also we calculate the phase shift in the TE and TM transmitted and reflected fields relative to the incident field phase, which lead to polarization rotations.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**4.    Security of quantum key distribution with bit and basis dependent detector flaws**  
L. Lydersen, J. Skaar  
Quant. Inf. Comp. 10, 0060 (2010)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.0767  
<blockquote>
<p>
We consider the security of the Bennett-Brassard 1984 (BB84) protocol for Quantum Key Distribution (QKD), in the presence of bit and basis dependent detector flaws. We suggest a powerful attack that can be used in systems with detector efficiency mismatch, even if the detector assignments are chosen randomly by Bob. A security proof is provided, valid for any basis dependent, possibly lossy, linear optical imperfections in the channel/receiver/detectors. The proof does not assume the so-called squashing detector model.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**5.    Decoherence of two qubits in a non-Markovian squeezed reservoir**  
Fa-Qiang Wang, Zhi-Ming Zhang, Rui-Sheng Liang  
http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.1572  
<blockquote>
<p>
The decoherence of two initially entangled qubits in a squeezed vacuum cavity has been investigated exactly. The results show that, first, in principle, the disentanglement time decreases with the increasing of squeeze parameter r, due to the augmenting of average photon number of every mode in squeezed vacuum cavity. Second, there are entanglement revivals after complete disentanglement for the case of even parity initial Bell state, while there are entanglement decrease and revival before complete disentanglement for the case of odd parity initial Bell state. The results are quite different from that of the case for qubits in a vacuum cavity.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**6.    Entanglement-assisted Coding Theory**  
Min-Hsiu Hsieh  
http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.2080  
<blockquote>
<p>
In this dissertation, I present a general method for studying quantum error correction codes (QECCs). This method not only provides us an intuitive way of understanding QECCs, but also leads to several extensions of standard QECCs, including the operator quantum error correction (OQECC), the entanglement-assisted quantum error correction (EAQECC). Furthermore, we can combine both OQECC and EAQECC into a unified formalism, the entanglement-assisted operator formalism. This provides great flexibility of designing QECCs for different applications. Finally, I show that the performance of quantum low-density parity-check codes will be largely improved using entanglement-assisted formalism.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**7.    One-dimensional quantum random walks with two entangled coins**  
Chaobin Liu, Nelson Petulante  
Phys. Rev. A 79, 032312 (2009)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.2263  
<blockquote>
<p>
We offer theoretical explanations for some recent observations in numerical simulations of quantum random walks (QRW). Specifically, in the case of a QRW on the line with one particle (walker) and two entangled coins, we explain the phenomenon, called "localization", whereby the probability distribution of the walker's position is seen to exhibit a persistent major "spike" (or "peak") at the initial position and two other minor spikes which drift to infinity in either direction. Another interesting finding in connection with QRW's of this sort pertains to the limiting behavior of the position probability distribution. It is seen that the probability of finding the walker at any given location becomes eventually stationary and non-vanishing. We explain these observations in terms of the degeneration of some eigenvalue of the time evolution operator $U(k)$. An explicit general formula is derived for the limiting probability, from which we deduce the limiting value of the height of the observed spike at the origin. We show that the limiting probability decreases {\em quadratically} for large values of the position $x$. We locate the two minor spikes and demonstrate that their positions are determined by the phases of non-degenerated eigenvalues of $U(k)$. Finally, for fixed time $t$ sufficiently large, we examine the dependence on $t$ of the probability of finding a particle at a given location $x$.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**8.    Entangled Quantum Key Distribution Over Two Free-Space Optical Links**  
C. Erven, C. Couteau, R. Laflamme, G. Weihs  
Opt. Exp. 16, 16840 (2008)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.2289  
<blockquote>
<p>
We report on the first real-time implementation of a quantum key distribution (QKD) system using entangled photon pairs that are sent over two free-space optical telescope links. The entangled photon pairs are produced with a type-II spontaneous parametric down-conversion source placed in a central, potentially untrusted, location. The two free-space links cover a distance of 435 m and 1,325 m respectively, producing a total separation of 1,575 m. The system relies on passive polarization analysis units, GPS timing receivers for synchronization, and custom written software to perform the complete QKD protocol including error correction and privacy amplification. Over 6.5 hours during the night, we observed an average raw key generation rate of 565 bits/s, an average quantum bit error rate (QBER) of 4.92%, and an average secure key generation rate of 85 bits/s.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**9.    Enhancing the Detection of Natural Thermal Entanglement with Disorder**  
Jenny Hide, Wonmin Son, Vlatko Vedral  
Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 100503 (2009)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.2529  
<blockquote>
<p>
Physical systems have some degree of disorder present in them. We discuss how to treat natural, thermal entanglement in any random macroscopic system from which a thermodynamic witness bounded by a constant can be found. We propose that functional many-body perturbation theory be applied to allow either a quenched or an annealed average over the disorder to be taken. We find when considering the example of an XX Heisenberg spin chain with a random coupling strength, that the region of natural entanglement detected by both witnesses can be enhanced by the disorder.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**10.    Quantum decay cannot be completely reversed. The 5% rule**  
Robert Alicki  
http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.2609  
<blockquote>
<p>
Using an exactly solvable model of the Wigner-Weisskopf atom it is shown that an unstable quantum state cannot be recovered completely by the procedure involving detection of the decay products followed by creation of the time reversed decay products state, as proposed in \cite{Son}. The universal lower bound on the recovery error is approximately equal to $5% $ of the \emph{error per cycle} - the dimensionless parameter characterizing decay process in the Markovian approximation. This result has consequences for the efficiency of quantum error correction procedures which are based on syndrome measurements and corrective operations.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**11.    Transport and Quantum Walk of Nonclassical Light in Coupled Waveguides**  
Amit Rai, G. S. Agarwal, J. H. H. Perk  
PHYSICAL REVIEW A 78, 042304 (2008)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.3063  
<blockquote>
<p>
We study the transport and quantum walk of nonclassical light in an array of coupled waveguides which have novel properties like very low decoherence and thus making them ideal for storage of quantum information. We show how squeezing gets turned over from one waveguide to another. We further show how input nonclassical light can generate entanglement among different waveguides. Our results involve both first quantization due to array structure and second quantization due to the quantum nature of fields and can also be used to discuss the Talbot effect in the quantum regime.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**12.    Formation of ultracold polar molecules in the rovibrational ground state**  
J. Deiglmayr, A. Grochola, M. Repp, K. M?rtlbauer, C. Glück, J. Lange, O. Dulieu, R. Wester, M. Weidemüller  
PRL 101, 133004 (2008)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.3272  
<blockquote>
<p>
Ultracold LiCs molecules in the absolute ground state X$^1\Sigma^+$, v"=0, J"=0 are formed via a single photo-association step starting from laser-cooled atoms. The selective production of v"=0, J"=2 molecules with a 50-fold higher rate is also demonstrated. The rotational and vibrational state of the ground state molecules is determined in a setup combining depletion spectroscopy with resonant-enhanced multi-photon ionization time-of-flight spectroscopy. Using the determined production rate of up to 5x10^3 molecules/s, we describe a simple scheme which can provide large samples of externally and internally cold dipolar molecules.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**13.    Tunable Up-Conversion Photon Detector**  
R. T. Thew, H. Zbinden, N. Gisin  
http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.3399  
<blockquote>
<p>
We introduce a simple approach for a tunable up-conversion detector. This scheme is relevant for both single photon detection or anywhere where low light levels at telecom wavelengths need to be detected with a high degree of temporal resolution or where high count rates are desired. A system combining a periodically poled Lithium niobate waveguide for the nonlinear wavelength conversion and a low jitter Silicon avalanche photodiode are used in conjunction with a tunable pump source. We report more than a ten-fold increase in the detectable bandwidth using this tuning scheme.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**14.    Nearest-Neighbor Detection of Atoms in a 1D Optical Lattice by Fluorescence Imaging**  
M. Karski, L. F?rster, J. M. Choi, W. Alt, A. Widera, D. Meschede  
Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 053001 (2009)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.3894  
<blockquote>
<p>
We overcome the diffraction limit in fluorescence imaging of neutral atoms in a sparsely filled one-dimensional optical lattice. At a periodicity of 433 nm, we reliably infer the separation of two atoms down to nearest neighbors. We observe light induced losses of atoms occupying the same lattice site, while for atoms in adjacent lattice sites, no losses due to light induced interactions occur. Our method points towards characterization of correlated quantum states in optical lattice systems with filling factors of up to one atom per lattice site.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**15.    Quantum and classical correlations in waveguide lattices**  
Y. Bromberg, Y. Lahini, R. Morandotti, Y. Silberberg  
http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.3938  
<blockquote>
<p>
We study quantum and classical Hanbury Brown-Twiss correlations in waveguide lattices. We develop a theory for the propagation of photon pairs in the lattice, predicting the emergence of nontrivial quantum interferences unique to lattice systems. Experimentally, we observe the classical counterpart of these interferences using intensity correlation measurements. We discuss the correspondence between the classical and quantum correlations, and consider path-entangled input states which do not have a classical analogue. Our results demonstrate that waveguide lattices can be used as a robust and highly controllable tool for manipulating quantum states, and offer new ways of studying the quantum properties of light.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**16.    Four-photon scattering in birefringent fibers**  
E. Brainis  
http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.3946  
<blockquote>
<p>
Four-photon scattering in nonlinear waveguides is an important physical process that allows photon-pair generation in well defined guided modes, with high rate and reasonably low noise. Most of the experiments to date used the scalar four-photon scattering process in which the pump photons and the scattered photons have the same polarization. In birefringent waveguides, vectorial four-photon scattering is also allowed: these vectorial scattering processes involve photons with different polarizations. In this article, the theory of four-photon scattering in nonlinear, birefringent, and dispersive fibers is developed in the framework of the quantum theory of light. The work focusses on the spectral properties and quantum correlations (including entanglement) of photon-pairs generated in high-birefringence and low-birefringence fibers.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**17.    Two-Photon Beatings Using Biphotons Generated from a Two-Level System**  
Jianming Wen, Shengwang Du, Morton H. Rubin, Eun Oh  
http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.4164  
<blockquote>
<p>
We propose a two-photon beating experiment based upon biphotons generated from a resonant pumping two-level system operating in a backward geometry. On the one hand, the linear optical-response leads biphotons produced from two sidebands in the Mollow triplet to propagate with tunable refractive indices, while the central-component propagates with unity refractive index. The relative phase difference due to different refractive indices is analogous to the pathway-length difference between long-long and short-short in the original Franson interferometer. By subtracting the linear Rayleigh scattering of the pump, the visibility in the center part of the two-photon beating interference can be ideally manipulated among [0, 100%] by varying the pump power, the material length, and the atomic density, which indicates a Bell-type inequality violation. On the other hand, the proposed experiment may be an interesting way of probing the quantum nature of the detection process. The interference will disappear when the separation of the Mollow peaks approaches the fundamental timescales for photon absorption in the detector.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**18.    Quantum control of dispersion in electromagnetically induced transparency via interacting dressed ground states**  
James Owen Weatherall, Christopher P. Search  
http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.4251  
<blockquote>
<p>
We offer a general treatment of electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT) in a five level system consisting of four metastable ground states. Two additional RF/microwave fields coherently couple the two ground states of the standard EIT $\Lambda$ atom to a pair of additional hyperfine states in the ground state manifold, generating two sets of dressed states that interact via the probe and control lasers, which couple to the electronic excited state. These new hyperfine dressed states manifest themselves in the linear optical susceptibility of the probe as new resonances in addition to the Autler-Townes doublet characteristic of EIT. In particular, we show that the existence of two new narrow resonances, whose width are limited only by ground state decoherence, appear inside the normal EIT transparency window. We show that by controlling the intensity of these RF/microwave fields, one can engineer both the position and width of these narrow resonances and thereby exercise additional control over both the dispersion and group velocity of the probe.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**19.    Linear-Optical Hyperentanglement-Assisted Quantum Error-Correcting Code**  
Mark M. Wilde, Dmitry B. Uskov  
Physical Review A 79, 022305 (2009)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.4906  
<blockquote>
<p>
We propose a linear-optical implementation of a hyperentanglement-assisted quantum error-correcting code. The code is hyperentanglement-assisted because the shared entanglement resource is a photonic state hyperentangled in polarization and orbital angular momentum. It is possible to encode, decode, and diagnose channel errors using linear-optical techniques. The code corrects for polarization "flip" errors and is thus suitable only for a proof-of-principle experiment. The encoding and decoding circuits use a Knill-Laflamme-Milburn-like scheme for transforming polarization and orbital angular momentum photonic qubits. A numerical optimization algorithm finds a unit-fidelity encoding circuit that requires only three ancilla modes and has success probability equal to 0.0097.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**20.    Quantum Communication With Zero-Capacity Channels**  
Graeme Smith, Jon Yard  
Science 321, 1812 - 1815 (2008)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.4935  
<blockquote>
<p>
Communication over a noisy quantum channel introduces errors in the transmission that must be corrected. A fundamental bound on quantum error correction is the quantum capacity, which quantifies the amount of quantum data that can be protected. We show theoretically that two quantum channels, each with a transmission capacity of zero, can have a nonzero capacity when used together. This unveils a rich structure in the theory of quantum communications, implying that the quantum capacity does not uniquely specify a channel's ability for transmitting quantum information.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**21.    Architectures for a quantum random access memory**  
Vittorio Giovannetti, Seth Lloyd, Lorenzo Maccone  
V. Giovannetti, S. Lloyd, L. Maccone, Phys. Rev. A 78, 052310 (2008)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.4994  
<blockquote>
<p>
A random access memory, or RAM, is a device that, when interrogated, returns the content of a memory location in a memory array. A quantum RAM, or qRAM, allows one to access superpositions of memory sites, which may contain either quantum or classical information. RAMs and qRAMs with n-bit addresses can access 2^n memory sites. Any design for a RAM or qRAM then requires O(2^n) two-bit logic gates. At first sight this requirement might seem to make large scale quantum versions of such devices impractical, due to the difficulty of constructing and operating coherent devices with large numbers of quantum logic gates. Here we analyze two different RAM architectures (the conventional fanout and the "bucket brigade") and propose some proof-of-principle implementations which show that in principle only O(n) two-qubit physical interactions need take place during each qRAM call. That is, although a qRAM needs O(2^n) quantum logic gates, only O(n) need to be activated during a memory call. The resulting decrease in resources could give rise to the construction of large qRAMs that could operate without the need for extensive quantum error correction.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**22.    Limit theorems for quantum walks driven by many coins**  
Etsuo Segawa, Norio Konno  
International Journal of Quantum Information, Vol.6, Issue 6, pp.1231-1243 (2008)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.5074  
<blockquote>
<p>
We obtain some rigorous results on limit theorems for quantum walks driven by many coins introduced by Brun et al. in the long time limit. The results imply that whether the behavior of a particle is quantum or classical depends on the three factors: the initial qubit, the number of coins M, d= [t/M], where t is time step. Our main theorem shows that we can see a transition from classical behavior to quantum one for a class of three factors.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**23.    Qubit coherence decay down to threshold: influence of substrate dimensions**  
Roland Doll, Peter Hanggi, Sigmund Kohler, Martijn Wubs  
Eur. Phys. J. B 68, 523 (2009)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/0807.2555  
<blockquote>
<p>
Keeping single-qubit quantum coherence above some threshold value not far below unity is a prerequisite for fault-tolerant quantum error correction (QEC). We study the initial dephasing of solid-state qubits in the independent-boson model, which describes well recent experiments on quantum dot (QD) excitons both in bulk and in substrates of reduced geometry such as nanotubes. Using explicit expressions for the exact coherence dynamics, a minimal QEC rate is identified in terms of the error threshold, temperature, and qubit-environment coupling strength. This allows us to systematically study the benefit of a current trend towards substrates with reduced dimensions.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

