---
layout: arxiv
title: 200907 Filtered arXiv Papers
---

**1.    Detecting Entanglement with Jarzynski's Equality**  
Jenny Hide, Vlatko Vedral  
Phys. Rev. A 81, 062303 (2010)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.0179  
<blockquote>
<p>
We present a method for detecting the entanglement of a state using non-equilibrium processes. A comparison of relative entropies allows us to construct an entanglement witness. The relative entropy can further be related to the quantum Jarzynski equality, allowing non-equilibrium work to be used in entanglement detection. To exemplify our results, we consider two different spin chains.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**2.    Designing quantum memories with embedded control: photonic circuits for autonomous quantum error correction**  
Joseph Kerckhoff, Hendra I. Nurdin, Dmitri S. Pavlichin, Hideo Mabuchi  
Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 040502 (2010)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.0236  
<blockquote>
<p>
Quantum error correction (QEC) is fundamental for quantum information processing but entails a substantial overhead of classically-controlled quantum operations, which can be architecturally cumbersome to accommodate. Here we discuss a novel approach to designing elementary QEC memory cells, in which all control operations are performed autonomously by an embedded optical feedback loop. Our approach is natural for nanophotonic implementations in which each qubit can be coupled to its own optical resonator, and our design for a memory cell based on the quantum bit-flip or phase-flip code requires only five qubit-cavities (three for the register and two for the controller) connected by wave-guides. The photonic QEC circuit is entirely on-chip, requiring no external clocking or control, and during steady-state operation would only need to be powered by the injection of constant-amplitude coherent fields.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**3.    Monte Carlo analysis of critical phenomenon of the Ising model on memory stabilizer structures**  
C. Ricardo Viteri, Yu Tomita, Kenneth R. Brown  
http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.0394  
<blockquote>
<p>
We calculate the critical temperature of the Ising model on a set of graphs representing a concatenated three-bit error-correction code. The graphs are derived from the stabilizer formalism used in quantum error correction. The stabilizer for a subspace is defined as the group of Pauli operators whose eigenvalues are +1 on the subspace. The group can be generated by a subset of operators in the stabilizer, and the choice of generators determines the structure of the graph. The Wolff algorithm, together with the histogram method and finite-size scaling, is used to calculate both the critical temperature and the critical exponents of each structure. The simulations show that the choice of stabilizer generators, both the number and the geometry, has a large effect on the critical temperature.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**4.    Time evolution of the one-dimensional Jaynes-Cummings-Hubbard Hamiltonian**  
M.I. Makin, Jared H. Cole, Charles D. Hill, Andrew D. Greentree, Lloyd C. L. Hollenberg  
http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.0539  
<blockquote>
<p>
The Jaynes-Cummings-Hubbard (JCH) system describes a network of single-mode photonic cavities connected via evanescent coupling. Each cavity contains a single two level system which can be tuned in resonance with the cavity. Here we explore the behavior of single excitations (where an excitation can be either photonic or atomic) in the linear JCH system, which describes a coupled cavity waveguide. We use direct, analytic diagonalization of the Hamiltonian to study cases where inter-cavity coupling is either uniform or varies parabolically along the chain. Both excitations located in a single cavity, as well as one excitation as a Gaussian pulse spread over many cavities, are investigated as initial states. We predict unusual behavior of this system in the time domain, including slower than expected propagation of the excitation, and also splitting of the excitation into two distinct pulses, which travel at distinct speeds. In certain limits, we show that the JCH system mimics two Heisenberg spin chains.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**5.    Capacity of a bosonic memory channel with Gauss-Markov noise**  
Joachim Sch?fer, David Daems, Evgueni Karpov, Nicolas J. Cerf  
Phys. Rev. A 80, 062313 (2009)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.0982  
<blockquote>
<p>
We address the classical capacity of a quantum bosonic memory channel with additive noise, subject to an input energy constraint. The memory is modeled by correlated noise emerging from a Gauss-Markov process. Under reasonable assumptions, we show that the optimal modulation results from a "quantum water-filling" solution above a certain input energy threshold, similar to the optimal modulation for parallel classical Gaussian channels. We also derive analytically the optimal multimode input state above this threshold, which enables us to compute the capacity of this memory channel in the limit of an infinite number of modes. The method can also be applied to a more general noise environment which is constructed by a stationary Gauss process. The extension of our results to the case of broadband bosonic channels with colored Gaussian noise should also be straightforward.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**6.    Soft-Pulse Dynamical Decoupling with Markovian Decoherence**  
Leonid P. Pryadko, Gregory Quiroz  
http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.1315  
<blockquote>
<p>
We consider the effect of broadband decoherence on the performance of refocusing sequences, having in mind applications of dynamical decoupling in concatenation with quantum error correcting codes as the first stage of coherence protection. Specifically, we construct cumulant expansions of effective decoherence operators for a qubit driven by a pulse of a generic symmetric shape, and for several sequences of $\pi$- and $\pi/2$-pulses. While, in general, the performance of soft pulses in decoupling sequences in the presence of Markovian decoherence is worse than that of the ideal $\delta$-pulses, it can be substantially improved by shaping.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**7.    Forgetfulness of continuous Markovian quantum channels**  
Cosmo Lupo, Laleh Memarzadeh, Stefano Mancini  
Phys. Rev. A 80, 042328 (2009)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.1544  
<blockquote>
<p>
The notion of forgetfulness, used in discrete quantum memory channels, is slightly weakened in order to be applied to the case of continuous channels. This is done in the context of quantum memory channels with Markovian noise. As a case study, we apply the notion of weak-forgetfulness to a bosonic memory channel with additive noise. A suitable encoding and decoding unitary transformation allows us to unravel the effects of the memory, hence the channel capacities can be computed using known results from the memoryless setting.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**8.    Quantum Walk in Position Space with Single Optically Trapped Atoms**  
Micha? Karski, Leonid F?rster, Jai-Min Choi, Andreas Steffen, Wolfgang Alt, Dieter Meschede, Artur Widera  
Science 325, p174 (2009)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.1565  
<blockquote>
<p>
The quantum walk is the quantum analogue of the well-known random walk, which forms the basis for models and applications in many realms of science. Its properties are markedly different from the classical counterpart and might lead to extensive applications in quantum information science. In our experiment, we implemented a quantum walk on the line with single neutral atoms by deterministically delocalizing them over the sites of a one-dimensional spin-dependent optical lattice. With the use of site-resolved fluorescence imaging, the final wave function is characterized by local quantum state tomography, and its spatial coherence is demonstrated. Our system allows the observation of the quantum-to-classical transition and paves the way for applications, such as quantum cellular automata.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**9.    Non-Markovian quantum trajectories: an exact result**  
Angelo Bassi, Luca Ferialdi  
Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 050403 (2009)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.1615  
<blockquote>
<p>
We analyze the non-Markovian stochastic Schroedinger equation describing a particle subject to spontaneous collapses in space (in the language of collapse models), or subject to a continuous measurement of its position (in the language of continuous quantum measurement). For the first time, we give the explicit general solution for the free particle case (H = p^2/2m), and discuss the main properties. We analyze the case of an exponential correlation function for the noise, giving a quantitative description of the dynamics and of its dependence on the correlation time.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**10.    Faster quantum algorithm for evaluating game trees**  
Ben W. Reichardt  
Proc. 22nd ACM-SIAM Symp. on Discrete Algorithms (SODA), 2011, pages 546-559  
http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.1623  
<blockquote>
<p>
We give an O(sqrt n log n)-query quantum algorithm for evaluating size-n AND-OR formulas. Its running time is poly-logarithmically greater after efficient preprocessing. Unlike previous approaches, the algorithm is based on a quantum walk on a graph that is not a tree. Instead, the algorithm is based on a hybrid of direct-sum span program composition, which generates tree-like graphs, and a novel tensor-product span program composition method, which generates graphs with vertices corresponding to minimal zero-certificates. For comparison, by the general adversary bound, the quantum query complexity for evaluating a size-n read-once AND-OR formula is at least Omega(sqrt n), and at most O(sqrt{n} log n / log log n). However, this algorithm is not necessarily time efficient; the number of elementary quantum gates applied between input queries could be much larger. Ambainis et al. have given a quantum algorithm that uses sqrt{n} 2^{O(sqrt{log n})} queries, with a poly-logarithmically greater running time.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**11.    Graphical algorithms and threshold error rates for the 2d colour code**  
D. S. Wang, A. G. Fowler, C. D. Hill, L. C. L. Hollenberg  
Quantum Information and Computation 10, 780 (2010)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.1708  
<blockquote>
<p>
Recent work on fault-tolerant quantum computation making use of topological error correction shows great potential, with the 2d surface code possessing a threshold error rate approaching 1% (NJoP 9:199, 2007), (arXiv:0905.0531). However, the 2d surface code requires the use of a complex state distillation procedure to achieve universal quantum computation. The colour code of (PRL 97:180501, 2006) is a related scheme partially solving the problem, providing a means to perform all Clifford group gates transversally. We review the colour code and its error correcting methodology, discussing one approximate technique based on graph matching. We derive an analytic lower bound to the threshold error rate of 6.25% under error-free syndrome extraction, while numerical simulations indicate it may be as high as 13.3%. Inclusion of faulty syndrome extraction circuits drops the threshold to approximately 0.1%.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**12.    Non-Gaussian entanglement distillation for continuous variables**  
Hiroki Takahashi, Jonas S. Neergaard-Nielsen, Makoto Takeuchi, Masahiro Takeoka, Kazuhiro Hayasaka, Akira Furusawa, Masahide Sasaki  
Nature Photonics 4, 178 (2010)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.2159  
<blockquote>
<p>
Entanglement distillation is an essential ingredient for long distance quantum communications. In the continuous variable setting, Gaussian states play major roles in quantum teleportation, quantum cloning and quantum cryptography. However, entanglement distillation from Gaussian states has not yet been demonstrated. It is made difficult by the no-go theorem stating that no Gaussian operation can distill Gaussian states. Here we demonstrate the entanglement distillation from Gaussian states by using measurement-induced non-Gaussian operations, circumventing the fundamental restriction of the no-go theorem. We observed a gain of entanglement as a result of conditional local subtraction of a single photon or two photons from a two-mode Gaussian state. Furthermore we confirmed that two-photon subtraction also improves Gaussian-like entanglement as specified by the Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen (EPR) correlation. This distilled entanglement can be further employed to downstream applications such as high fidelity quantum teleportation and a loophole-free Bell test.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**13.    Multi-mode entanglement of N harmonic oscillators coupled to a non-Markovian reservoir**  
Gao-xiang Li, Li-hui Sun, Zbigniew Ficek  
J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 43, 135501 (2010)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.2298  
<blockquote>
<p>
Multi-mode entanglement is investigated in the system composed of $N$ coupled identical harmonic oscillators interacting with a common environment. We treat the problem very general by working with the Hamiltonian without the rotating-wave approximation and by considering the environment as a non-Markovian reservoir to the oscillators. We invoke an $N$-mode unitary transformation of the position and momentum operators and find that in the transformed basis the system is represented by a set of independent harmonic oscillators with only one of them coupled to the environment. Working in the Wigner representation of the density operator, we find that the covariance matrix has a block diagonal form that it can be expressed in terms of multiples of $3\times 3$ and $4\times 4$ matrices. This simple property allows to treat the problem to some extend analytically. We illustrate the advantage of working in the transformed basis on a simple example of three harmonic oscillators and find that the entanglement can persists for long times due to presence of constants of motion for the covariance matrix elements. We find that, in contrast to what one could expect, a strong damping of the oscillators leads to a better stationary entanglement than in the case of a weak damping.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**14.    Non-Gaussian and Gaussian Entanglement in Coupled Leaky Waveguides**  
Amit Rai, Sumanta Das, G. S. Agarwal  
Optics Express Vol 18 6254 (2010)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.2432  
<blockquote>
<p>
We investigate the viability of coupled waveguides as basic units of quantum circuits. In particular, we study the dynamics of entanglement for the single photon state, and single mode squeezed vacuum state. We further consider the case of entangled inputs in terms of the two mode mode squeezed vacuum states and the two photon NOON state. We present explicit analytical results for the measure of entanglement in terms of the logarithmic negativity. We also address the effect of loss on entanglement dynamics of waveguide modes. Our results indicate that the waveguide structures are reasonably robust against the effect of loss and thus quite appropriate for quantum architectures as well as for the study of coherent phenomena like random walks. Our analysis is based on realistic structures used currently.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**15.    Cavity-QED models of switches for attojoule-scale nanophotonic logic**  
Hideo Mabuchi  
http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.2720  
<blockquote>
<p>
Quantum optical input-output models are described for a class of optical switches based on cavity quantum electrodynamics (cavity QED) with a single multilevel atom (or comparable bound system of charges) coupled simultaneously to several resonant field modes. A recent limit theorem for quantum stochastic differential equations is used to show that such models converge to a simple scattering matrix in a type of strong coupling limit that seems natural for nanophotonic systems. Numerical integration is used to show that the behavior of the pre-limit model approximates that of the simple scattering matrix in a realistic regime for the physical parameters, and that it is possible in the proposed cavity-QED configuration for low power optical signals to switch higher-power signals at attojoule energy scales.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**16.    An angular momentum approach to quadratic Fourier transform, Hadamard matrices, Gauss sums, mutually unbiased bases, unitary group and Pauli group**  
Maurice Robert Kibler  
Journal of Physics A Mathematical and Theoretical 42 (2009) 353001  
http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.2838  
<blockquote>
<p>
The construction of unitary operator bases in a finite-dimensional Hilbert space is reviewed through a nonstandard approach combinining angular momentum theory and representation theory of SU(2). A single formula for the bases is obtained from a polar decomposition of SU(2) and analysed in terms of cyclic groups, quadratic Fourier transforms, Hadamard matrices and generalized Gauss sums. Weyl pairs, generalized Pauli operators and their application to the unitary group and the Pauli group naturally arise in this approach.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**17.    Tight Noise Thresholds for Quantum Computation with Perfect Stabilizer Operations**  
Wim van Dam, Mark Howard  
Physical Review Letters, Volume 103, Number 17, Article 170504 (2009)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.3189  
<blockquote>
<p>
We study how much noise can be tolerated by a universal gate set before it loses its quantum-computational power. Specifically we look at circuits with perfect stabilizer operations in addition to imperfect non-stabilizer gates. We prove that for all unitary single-qubit gates there exists a tight depolarizing noise threshold that determines whether the gate enables universal quantum computation or if the gate can be simulated by a mixture of Clifford gates. This exact threshold is determined by the Clifford polytope spanned by the 24 single-qubit Clifford gates. The result is in contrast to the situation wherein non-stabilizer qubit states are used; the thresholds in that case are not currently known to be tight.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**18.    Decoherence suppression of a dissipative qubit by the non-Markovian effect**  
Qing-Jun Tong, Jun-Hong An, Hong-Gang Luo, C. H. Oh  
J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 43, 155501 (2010)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.3538  
<blockquote>
<p>
We evaluate exactly the non-Markovian effect on the decoherence dynamics of a qubit interacting with a dissipative vacuum reservoir and find that the coherence of the qubit can be partially trapped in the steady state when the memory effect of the reservoir is considered. Our analysis shows that it is the formation of a bound state between the qubit and its reservoir that results in this residual coherence in the steady state under the non-Markovian dynamics. A physical condition for the decoherence suppression is given explicitly. Our results suggest a potential way to decoherence control by modifying the system-reservoir interaction and the spectrum of the reservoir to the non-Markovian regime in the scenario of reservoir engineering.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**19.    Non-Markovian dissipative dynamics of two coupled qubits in independent reservoirs: a comparison between exact solutions and master equation approaches**  
E. Ferraro, M. Scala, R. Migliore, A. Napoli  
Physical Review A 80, 042112 (2009)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.4629  
<blockquote>
<p>
The reduced dynamics of two interacting qubits coupled to two independent bosonic baths is investigated. The one-excitation dynamics is derived and compared with that based on the resolution of appropriate non-Markovian master equations. The Nakajima-Zwanzig and the time-convolutionless projection operator techniques are exploited to provide a description of the non-Markovian features of the dynamics of the two-qubits system. The validity of such approximate methods and their range of validity in correspondence to different choices of the parameters describing the system are brought to light.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**20.    Non-Markovian incoherent quantum dynamics of a two-state system**  
M. H. S. Amin, Frederico Brito  
Phys. Rev. B 80, 214302 (2009)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.4797  
<blockquote>
<p>
We present a detailed study of the non-Markovian two-state system dynamics for the regime of incoherent quantum tunneling. Using perturbation theory in the system tunneling amplitude $\Delta$, and in the limit of strong system-bath coupling, we determine the short time evolution of the reduced density matrix and thereby find a general equation of motion for the non-Markovian evolution at longer times. We relate the nonlocality in time due to the non-Markovian effects with the environment characteristic response time. In addition, we study the incoherent evolution of a system with a double-well potential, where each well consists several quantized energy levels. We determine the crossover temperature to a regime where many energy levels in the wells participate in the tunneling process, and observe that the required temperature can be much smaller than the one associated with the system plasma frequency. We also discuss experimental implications of our theoretical analysis.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**21.    Spontaneous dressed-state polarization in the strong driving regime of cavity QED**  
Michael A. Armen, Anthony E. Miller, Hideo Mabuchi  
http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.4804  
<blockquote>
<p>
We utilize high-bandwidth phase quadrature homodyne measurement of the light transmitted through a Fabry-Perot cavity, driven strongly and on resonance, to detect excess phase noise induced by a single intracavity atom. We analyze the correlation properties and driving-strength dependence of the atom-induced phase noise to establish that it corresponds to the long-predicted phenomenon of spontaneous dressed-state polarization. Our experiment thus provides a demonstration of cavity quantum electrodynamics in the strong driving regime, in which one atom interacts strongly with a many-photon cavity field to produce novel quantum stochastic behavior.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**22.    Photonic quantum transport in a nonlinear optical fiber**  
Mohammad Hafezi, Darrick E. Chang, Vladimir Gritsev, Eugene Demler, Mikhail D. Lukin  
EPL 94, 54006 (2011)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.5206  
<blockquote>
<p>
We theoretically study the transmission of few-photon quantum fields through a strongly nonlinear optical medium. We develop a general approach to investigate non-equilibrium quantum transport of bosonic fields through a finite-size nonlinear medium and apply it to a recently demonstrated experimental system where cold atoms are loaded in a hollow-core optical fiber. We show that when the interaction between photons is effectively repulsive, the system acts as a single-photon switch. In the case of attractive interaction, the system can exhibit either anti-bunching or bunching, associated with the resonant excitation of bound states of photons by the input field. These effects can be observed by probing statistics of photons transmitted through the nonlinear fiber.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**23.    Quantum properties of the codirectional three-mode Kerr nonlinear coupler**  
Faisal A. A. El-Orany, M. Sebawe Abdalla, Jan Perina  
Eur. Phys. J. D 33 (2005) 453-463  
http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.5291  
<blockquote>
<p>
We investigate the quantum properties for the codirectional three-mode Kerr nonlinear coupler. We investigate single-, two- and three-mode quadrature squeezing, Wigner function and purity. We prove that this device can provide richer nonclassical effects than those produced by the conventional coupler, i.e. the two-mode Kerr coupler. We show that it can provide squeezing and the quadrature squeezing exhibiting leaf-revival-collapse phenomenon in dependence on the values of the interaction parameters. In contrast to the conventional Kerr coupler two different forms of cat states can be simultaneously generated in the waveguides. We deduce conditions required for the complete disentanglement between the components of the system.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**24.    General conditions for approximate quantum error correction and near-optimal recovery channels**  
Cédric Bény, Ognyan Oreshkov  
Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 120501 (2010)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/0907.5391  
<blockquote>
<p>
We derive necessary and sufficient conditions for the approximate correctability of a quantum code, generalizing the Knill-Laflamme conditions for exact error correction. Our measure of success of the recovery operation is the worst-case entanglement fidelity of the overall process. We show that the optimal recovery fidelity can be predicted exactly from a dual optimization problem on the environment causing the noise. We use this result to obtain an easy-to-calculate estimate of the optimal recovery fidelity as well as a way of constructing a class of near-optimal recovery channels that work within twice the minimal error. In addition to standard subspace codes, our results hold for subsystem codes and hybrid quantum-classical codes.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

