---
layout: arxiv
title: 201002 Filtered arXiv Papers
---

**1.    Continuous variable entanglement distillation of Non-Gaussian Mixed States**  
Ruifang Dong, Mikael Lassen, Joel Heersink, Christoph Marquardt, Radim Filip, Gerd Leuchs, Ulrik L. Andersen  
http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.0280  
<blockquote>
<p>
Many different quantum information communication protocols such as teleportation, dense coding and entanglement based quantum key distribution are based on the faithful transmission of entanglement between distant location in an optical network. The distribution of entanglement in such a network is however hampered by loss and noise that is inherent in all practical quantum channels. Thus, to enable faithful transmission one must resort to the protocol of entanglement distillation. In this paper we present a detailed theoretical analysis and an experimental realization of continuous variable entanglement distillation in a channel that is inflicted by different kinds of non-Gaussian noise. The continuous variable entangled states are generated by exploiting the third order non-linearity in optical fibers, and the states are sent through a free-space laboratory channel in which the losses are altered to simulate a free-space atmospheric channel with varying losses. We use linear optical components, homodyne measurements and classical communication to distill the entanglement, and we find that by using this method the entanglement can be probabilistically increased for some specific non-Gaussian noise channels.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**2.    Implementation of one-dimensional quantum walks on spin-orbital angular momentum space of photons**  
Pei Zhang, Bi-Heng Liu, Rui-Feng Liu, Hong-Rong Li, Fu-Li Li, Guang-Can Guo  
Phys. Rev A 81, 052322 (2010)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.0638  
<blockquote>
<p>
Photons can carry spin angular momentum (SAM) and orbital angular momentum (OAM), which can be used to realize a qubit system and a high-dimension system respectively. This spin-orbital system is very suitable for implementing one-dimensional discrete-time quantum random walks. We propose a simple scheme of quantum walks on the spin-orbital angular momentum space of photons, where photons walk on the infinity OAM space controlled by their SAM. By employing the recent invention of an optical device, the so-called 'q-plate', our scheme is more simple and efficient than others because there is no Mach-Zehnder interferometer in the scheme.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**3.    Quantum walk approach to search on fractal structures**  
Elena Agliari, Alexander Blumen, Oliver Muelken  
Phys. Rev. A 82, 012305 (2010)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.1274  
<blockquote>
<p>
We study continuous-time quantum walks mimicking the quantum search based on Grover's procedure. This allows us to consider structures, that is, databases, with arbitrary topological arrangements of their entries. We show that the topological structure of the database plays a crucial role by analyzing, both analytically and numerically, the transition from the ground to the first excited state of the Hamiltonian associated with different (fractal) structures. Additionally, we use the probability of successfully finding a specific target as another indicator of the importance of the topological structure.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**4.    Analyzing quantum jumps of one and two atoms strongly coupled to an optical cavity**  
Sebastian Reick, Klaus M?lmer, Wolfgang Alt, Martin Eckstein, Tobias Kampschulte, Lingbo Kong, René Reimann, Alexander Thobe, Artur Widera, Dieter Meschede  
J. Opt. Soc. Am. B 27, A 152 (2010)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.1366  
<blockquote>
<p>
We induce quantum jumps between the hyperfine ground states of one and two Cesium atoms, strongly coupled to the mode of a high-finesse optical resonator, and analyze the resulting random telegraph signals. We identify experimental parameters to deduce the atomic spin state nondestructively from the stream of photons transmitted through the cavity, achieving a compromise between a good signal-to-noise ratio and minimal measurement-induced perturbations. In order to extract optimum information about the spin dynamics from the photon count signal, a Bayesian update formalism is employed, which yields time-dependent probabilities for the atoms to be in either hyperfine state. We discuss the effect of super-Poissonian photon number distributions caused by atomic motion.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**5.    On fault-tolerance with noisy and slow measurements**  
Gerardo A. Paz-Silva, Gavin K. Brennen, Jason Twamley  
Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 100501 (2010)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.1536  
<blockquote>
<p>
It is not so well-known that measurement-free quantum error correction protocols can be designed to achieve fault-tolerant quantum computing. Despite the potential advantages of using such protocols in terms of the relaxation of accuracy, speed and addressing requirements on the measurement process, they have usually been overlooked because they are expected to yield a very bad threshold as compared to error correction protocols which use measurements. Here we show that this is not the case. We design fault-tolerant circuits for the 9 qubit Bacon-Shor code and find a threshold for gates and preparation of $p_{(p,g) thresh}=3.76 \times 10^{-5}$ (30% of the best known result for the same code using measurement based error correction) while admitting up to 1/3 error rates for measurements and allocating no constraints on measurement speed. We further show that demanding gate error rates sufficiently below the threshold one can improve the preparation threshold to $p_{(p)thresh} = 1/3$. We also show how these techniques can be adapted to other Calderbank-Shor-Steane codes.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**6.    Exact master equations for the non-Markovian decay of a qubit**  
Bassano Vacchini, Heinz-Peter Breuer  
Phys. Rev. A 81, 042103 (2010)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.2172  
<blockquote>
<p>
Exact master equations describing the decay of a two-state system into a structured reservoir are constructed. Employing the exact solution for the model we determine analytical expressions for the memory kernel of the Nakajima-Zwanzig master equation and for the generator of the corresponding time-convolutionless master equation. This approach allows a detailed investigation and comparison of the convergence behavior of the corresponding perturbation expansions. Moreover, we find that the structure of widely used phenomenological master equations with memory kernel may be incompatible with a non-perturbative treatment of the underlying microscopic model. We discuss several physical implications of our results on the microscopic analysis and the phenomenological modelling of non-Markovian quantum dynamics of open systems.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**7.    Adiabatic Markovian Dynamics**  
Ognyan Oreshkov, John Calsamiglia  
Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 050503 (2010)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.2219  
<blockquote>
<p>
We propose a theory of adiabaticity in quantum Markovian dynamics based on a decomposition of the Hilbert space induced by the asymptotic behavior of the Lindblad semigroup. A central idea of our approach is that the natural generalization of the concept of eigenspace of the Hamiltonian in the case of Markovian dynamics is a noiseless subsystem with a minimal noisy cofactor. Unlike previous attempts to define adiabaticity for open systems, our approach deals exclusively with physical entities and provides a simple, intuitive picture at the underlying Hilbert-space level, linking the notion of adiabaticity to the theory of noiseless subsystems. As an application of our theory, we propose a framework for decoherence-assisted computation in noiseless codes under general Markovian noise. We also formulate a dissipation-driven approach to holonomic computation based on adiabatic dragging of subsystems that is generally not achievable by non-dissipative means.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**8.    Experimental Demonstration of Squeezed State Quantum Averaging**  
Mikael Lassen, Lars Skovgaard Madsen, Metin Sabuncu, Radim Filip, Ulrik L. Andersen  
http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.2324  
<blockquote>
<p>
We propose and experimentally demonstrate a universal quantum averaging process implementing the harmonic mean of quadrature variances. The harmonic mean protocol can be used to efficiently stabilize a set of fragile squeezed light sources with statistically fluctuating noise levels. The averaged variances are prepared probabilistically by means of linear optical interference and measurement induced conditioning. We verify that the implemented harmonic mean outperforms the standard arithmetic mean strategy. The effect of quantum averaging is experimentally tested both for uncorrelated and partially correlated noise sources with sub-Poissonian shot noise or super-Poissonian shot noise characteristics.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**9.    Hidden Quantum Markov Models and non-adaptive read-out of many-body states**  
Alex Monras, Almut Beige, Karoline Wiesner  
Applied Mathematical and Computational Sciences 3, 93 (2011)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.2337  
<blockquote>
<p>
Stochastic finite-state generators are compressed descriptions of infinite time series. Alternatively, compressed descriptions are given by quantum finite- state generators [K. Wiesner and J. P. Crutchfield, Physica D 237, 1173 (2008)]. These are based on repeated von Neumann measurements on a quantum dynamical system. Here we generalise the quantum finite-state generators by replacing the von Neumann pro jections by stochastic quantum operations. In this way we assure that any time series with a stochastic compressed description has a compressed quantum description. Moreover, we establish a link between our stochastic generators and the sequential readout of many-body states with translationally-invariant matrix product state representations. As an example, we consider the non-adaptive read-out of 1D cluster states. This is shown to be equivalent to a Hidden Quantum Model with two internal states, providing insight on the inherent complexity of the process. Finally, it is proven by example that the quantum description can have a higher degree of compression than the classical stochastic one.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**10.    Quantum walks can find a marked element on any graph**  
Hari Krovi, Frédéric Magniez, Maris Ozols, Jérémie Roland  
http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.2419  
<blockquote>
<p>
We solve an open problem by constructing quantum walks that not only detect but also find marked vertices in a graph. In the case when the marked set $M$ consists of a single vertex, the number of steps of the quantum walk is quadratically smaller than the classical hitting time $HT(P,M)$ of any reversible random walk $P$ on the graph. In the case of multiple marked elements, the number of steps is given in terms of a related quantity $HT^+(\mathit{P,M})$ which we call extended hitting time. Our approach is new, simpler and more general than previous ones. We introduce a notion of interpolation between the random walk $P$ and the absorbing walk $P'$, whose marked states are absorbing. Then our quantum walk is simply the quantum analogue of this interpolation. Contrary to previous approaches, our results remain valid when the random walk $P$ is not state-transitive. We also provide algorithms in the cases when only approximations or bounds on parameters $p_M$ (the probability of picking a marked vertex from the stationary distribution) and $HT^+(\mathit{P,M})$ are known.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**11.    Measure for the Non-Markovianity of Quantum Processes**  
Elsi-Mari Laine, Jyrki Piilo, Heinz-Peter Breuer  
Phys. Rev. A 81, 062115 (2010)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.2583  
<blockquote>
<p>
Recently, a measure for the non-Markovian behavior of quantum processes in open systems has been developed which is based on the quantification of the flow of information between the open system and its environment [Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 210401 (2009)]. The information flow is connected to the rate of change of the trace distance between quantum states which can be interpreted in terms of the distinguishability of these states. Here, we elaborate the mathematical details of this theory, present applications to specific physical models, and discuss further theoretical and experimental implications, as well as relations to alternative approaches proposed recently.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**12.    Sub-shot-noise-limit discrimination of on-off keyed coherent signals via a quantum receiver with a superconducting transition edge sensor**  
Kenji Tsujino, Daiji Fukuda, Go Fujii, Shuichiro Inoue, Mikio Fujiwara, Masahiro Takeoka, Masahide Sasaki  
Opt. Express, 18, 8107 (2010)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.2819  
<blockquote>
<p>
We demonstrate a sub-shot-noise-limit discrimination of on-off keyed coherent signals by an optimal displacement quantum receiver in which a superconducting transition edge sensor is installed. Use of a transition edge sensor and a fiber beam splitter realizes high total detection efficiency and high interference visibility of the receiver and the observed average error surpasses the shot-noise-limit in a wider range of the signal power. Our technique opens up a new technology for the sub-shot-noise-limit detection of coherent signals in optical communication channels.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**13.    Quantum Online Memory Checking**  
Wim van Dam, Qingqing Yuan  
Lecture Notes in Computer Science 5906 (2009), 10-19  
http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.2970  
<blockquote>
<p>
The problem of memory checking considers storing files on an unreliable public server whose memory can be modified by a malicious party. The main task is to design an online memory checker with the capability to verify that the information on the server has not been corrupted. To store n bits of public information, the memory checker has s private reliable bits for verification purpose; while to retrieve each bit of public information the checker communicates t bits with the public memory. Earlier work showed that, for classical memory checkers, the lower bound s*t \in Omega(n) holds. In this article we study quantum memory checkers that have s private qubits and that are allowed to quantum query the public memory using t qubits. We prove an exponential improvement over the classical setting by showing the existence of a quantum checker that, using quantum fingerprints, requires only s \in O(log n) qubits of local memory and t \in O(polylog n) qubits of communication with the public memory.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**14.    Two-particle quantum walks applied to the graph isomorphism problem**  
John King Gamble, Mark Friesen, Dong Zhou, Robert Joynt, S. N. Coppersmith  
Phys. Rev. A 81, 052313 (2010)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.3003  
<blockquote>
<p>
We show that the quantum dynamics of interacting and noninteracting quantum particles are fundamentally different in the context of solving a particular computational problem. Specifically, we consider the graph isomorphism problem, in which one wishes to determine whether two graphs are isomorphic (related to each other by a relabeling of the graph vertices), and focus on a class of graphs with particularly high symmetry called strongly regular graphs (SRG's). We study the Green's functions that characterize the dynamical evolution single-particle and two-particle quantum walks on pairs of non-isomorphic SRG's and show that interacting particles can distinguish non-isomorphic graphs that noninteracting particles cannot. We obtain the following specific results: (1) We prove that quantum walks of two noninteracting particles, Fermions or Bosons, cannot distinguish certain pairs of non-isomorphic SRG's. (2) We demonstrate numerically that two interacting Bosons are more powerful than single particles and two noninteracting particles, in that quantum walks of interacting bosons distinguish all non-isomorphic pairs of SRGs that we examined. By utilizing high-throughput computing to perform over 500 million direct comparisons between evolution operators, we checked all tabulated pairs of non-isomorphic SRGs, including graphs with up to 64 vertices. (3) By performing a short-time expansion of the evolution operator, we derive distinguishing operators that provide analytic insight into the power of the interacting two-particle quantum walk.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**15.    Optical continuous-variable qubit**  
Jonas S. Neergaard-Nielsen, Makoto Takeuchi, Kentaro Wakui, Hiroki Takahashi, Kazuhiro Hayasaka, Masahiro Takeoka, Masahide Sasaki  
Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 053602 (2010); Appendix expanded to full article in J. Mod. Opt. 58, 266-275 (2011)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.3211  
<blockquote>
<p>
In a new branch of quantum computing, information is encoded into coherent states, the primary carriers of optical communication. To exploit it, quantum bits of these coherent states are needed, but it is notoriously hard to make superpositions of such continuous-variable states. We have realized the complete engineering and characterization of a qubit of two optical continuous-variable states. Using squeezed vacuum as a resource and a special photon subtraction technique, we could with high precision prepare an arbitrary superposition of squeezed vacuum and a squeezed single photon. This could lead the way to demonstrations of coherent state quantum computing.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**16.    Fractional Fourier Transform and Geometric Quantization**  
Witold Chmielowiec, Jerzy Kijowski  
J.Geom.Phys. 62 (2012) 1433-1450  
http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.3908  
<blockquote>
<p>
Generalized Fourier transformation between the position and the momentum representation of a quantum state is constructed in a coordinate independent way. The only ingredient of this construction is the symplectic (canonical) geometry of the phase-space: no linear structure is necessary. It is shown that the "fractional Fourier transform" provides a simple example of this construction. As an application of this techniques we show that for any linear Hamiltonian system, its quantum dynamics can be obtained exactly as the lift of the corresponding classical dynamics by means of the above transformation. Moreover, it can be deduced from the free quantum evolution. This way new, unknown symmetries of the Schr\"odinger equation can be constructed. It is also argued that the above construction defines in a natural way a connection in the bundle of quantum states, with the base space describing all their possible representations. The non-flatness of this connection would be responsible for the non-existence of a quantum representation of the complete algebra of classical observables.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**17.    Consistent histories of systems and measurements in spacetime**  
Ed Seidewitz  
Found.Phys.41:1163-1192,2011  
http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.3917  
<blockquote>
<p>
Traditional interpretations of quantum theory in terms of wave function collapse are particularly unappealing when considering the universe as a whole, where there is no clean separation between classical observer and quantum system and where the description is inherently relativistic. As an alternative, the consistent histories approach provides an attractive "no collapse" interpretation of quantum physics. Consistent histories can also be linked to path-integral formulations that may be readily generalized to the relativistic case. A previous paper described how, in such a relativistic spacetime path formalism, the quantum history of the universe could be considered to be an eignestate of the measurements made within it. However, two important topics were not addressed in detail there: a model of measurement processes in the context of quantum histories in spacetime and a justification for why the probabilities for each possible cosmological eigenstate should follow Born's rule. The present paper addresses these topics by showing how Zurek's concepts of einselection and envariance can be applied in the context of relativistic spacetime and quantum histories. The result is a model of systems and subsystems within the universe and their interaction with each other and their environment.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**18.    Lateral Casimir force between sinusoidally corrugated surfaces: Asymmetric profiles, deviations from the proximity force approximation and comparison with exact theory**  
H.-C. Chiu, G. L. Klimchitskaya, V. N. Marachevsky, V. M. Mostepanenko, U. Mohideen  
Phys. Rev. B, v.81, N11, p.115417-(1-20) (2010)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.3936  
<blockquote>
<p>
The lateral Casimir force, which arises between aligned sinusoidally corrugated surfaces of a sphere and a plate, was measured for the case of a small corrugation period beyond the applicability region of the proximity force approximation. The increased amplitudes of the corrugations on both the sphere and the plate allowed observation of an asymmetry of the lateral Casimir force, i.e., deviation of its profile from a perfect sine function. The dependences of the lateral force on the phase shift between the corrugations on both test bodies were measured at different separations in two sets of measurements with different amplitudes of corrugations on the sphere. The maximum magnitude of the lateral force as a function of separation was also measured in two successive experiments. All measurement data were compared with the theoretical approach using the proximity force approximation and with the exact theory based on Rayleigh expansions with no fitting parameters. In both cases real material properties of the test bodies and nonzero temperature were taken into account. The data were found to be in a good agreement with the exact theory but deviate significantly from the predictions of the proximity force approximation approach. This provides the quantitative confirmation for the observation of diffraction-type effects that are disregarded within the PFA approach. Possible applications of the phenomenon of the lateral Casimir force in nanotechnology for the operation of micromachines are discussed.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**19.    Grover-like search via Frenkel exciton trapping mechanism**  
A. Thilagam  
PHYSICAL REVIEW A 81, 032309 (2010)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.4056  
<blockquote>
<p>
We propose the physical implementation of a Grover-like search problem by means of Frenkel exciton trapping at a shallow isotopic impurity against a background of competing mechanisms. The search culminating at the impurity molecule, designated the "winner" site, is marked by its enhanced interaction with acoustic phonons at low temperatures. The quantum search proceeds with the assistance of an Oracle-like exciton-phonon interaction which addresses only the impurity site, via the Dyson propagator within the Green's function formalism. The optimum parameters of a graph lattice with long-range intersite interactions required to trap the exciton in the fastest time are determined, and estimates of error rates for the naphthalene doped organic system are evaluated. We extend analysis of quantum search to a fluctuating long-range interacting cycle (LRIC) graph lattice system.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**20.    Entangling gates in even Euclidean lattices such as the Leech lattice**  
Michel Planat  
Physica Scripta 147 (2012) 014025  
http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.4287  
<blockquote>
<p>
The group of automorphisms of Euclidean (embedded in $\mathbb{R}^n$) dense lattices such as the root lattices $D_4$ and $E_8$, the Barnes-Wall lattice $BW_{16}$, the unimodular lattice $D_{12}^+$ and the Leech lattice $\Lambda_{24}$ may be generated by entangled quantum gates of the corresponding dimension. These (real) gates/lattices are useful for quantum error correction: for instance, the two and four-qubit real Clifford groups are the automorphism groups of the lattices $D_4$ and $BW_{16}$, respectively, and the three-qubit real Clifford group is maximal in the Weyl group $W(E_8)$. Technically, the automorphism group $Aut(\Lambda)$ of the lattice $\Lambda$ is the set of orthogonal matrices $B$ such that, following the conjugation action by the generating matrix of the lattice, the output matrix is unimodular (of determinant $\pm 1$, with integer entries). When the degree $n$ is equal to the number of basis elements of $\Lambda$, then $Aut(\Lambda)$ also acts on basis vectors and is generated with matrices $B$ such that the sum of squared entries in a row is one, i.e. $B$ may be seen as a quantum gate. For the dense lattices listed above, maximal multipartite entanglement arises. In particular, one finds a balanced tripartite entanglement in $E_8$ (the two- and three- tangles have equal magnitude 1/4) and a GHZ type entanglement in BW$_{16}$. In this paper, we also investigate the entangled gates from $D_{12}^+$ and $\Lambda_{24}$, by seeing them as systems coupling a qutrit to two- and three-qubits, respectively. Apart from quantum computing, the work may be related to particle physics in the spirit of \cite{PLS2010}.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**21.    Discrete single-photon quantum walks with tunable decoherence**  
M. A. Broome, A. Fedrizzi, B. P. Lanyon, I. Kassal, A. Aspuru-Guzik, A. G. White  
Physical Review Letters 104, 153602 (2010)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.4923  
<blockquote>
<p>
Quantum walks have a host of applications, ranging from quantum computing to the simulation of biological systems. We present an intrinsically stable, deterministic implementation of discrete quantum walks with single photons in space. The number of optical elements required scales linearly with the number of steps. We measure walks with up to 6 steps and explore the quantum-to-classical transition by introducing tunable decoherence. Finally, we also investigate the effect of absorbing boundaries and show that decoherence significantly affects the probability of absorption.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**22.    Photonic Crystal Nanobeam Cavity Strongly Coupled to the Feeding Waveguide**  
Qimin Quan, Parag B Deotare, Marko Loncar  
Appl. Phys. Lett. 96, 203102 (2010)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.1319  
<blockquote>
<p>
A deterministic design of an ultrahigh Q, wavelength scale mode volume photonic crystal nanobeam cavity is proposed and experimentally demonstrated. Using this approach, cavities with Q>10^6 and on-resonance transmission T>90% are designed. The devices fabricated in Si and capped with low-index polymer, have Q=80,000 and T=73%. This is, to the best of our knowledge, the highest transmission measured in deterministically designed, wavelength scale high Q cavities.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**23.    Superconducting resonators as beam splitters for linear-optics quantum computation**  
Luca Chirolli, Guido Burkard, Shwetank Kumar, David P. DiVincenzo  
Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 230502 (2010)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.1394  
<blockquote>
<p>
A functioning quantum computer will be a machine that builds up, in a programmable way, nonclassical correlations in a multipartite quantum system. Linear optics quantum computation (LOQC) is an approach for achieving this function that requires only simple, reliable linear optical elements, namely beam splitters and phase shifters. Nonlinear optics is only required in the form of single-photon sources for state initialization, and detectors. However, the latter remain difficult to achieve with high fidelity. A new setting for quantum optics has arisen in circuit quantum electrodynamics (cQED) using superconducting (SC) quantum devices, and opening up the way to LOQC using microwave, rather than visible photons. Much progress is being made in SC qubits and cQED: high-fidelity Fock state generation and qubit measurements provide single photon sources and detection. Here we show that the LOQC toolkit in cQED can be completed with high-fidelity (>99.92%) linear optical elements.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**24.    Long time dynamics following a quench in an integrable quantum spin chain: local versus non-local operators and effective thermal behavior**  
Davide Rossini, Sei Suzuki, Giuseppe Mussardo, Giuseppe E. Santoro, Alessandro Silva  
Phys.Rev.B82:144302,2010  
http://arxiv.org/abs/1002.2842  
<blockquote>
<p>
We study the dynamics of the quantum Ising chain following a zero-temperature quench of the transverse field strength. Focusing on the behavior of two-point spin correlation functions, we show that the correlators of the order parameter display an effective asymptotic thermal behavior, i.e., they decay exponentially to zero, with a phase coherence rate and a correlation length dictated by the equilibrium law with an effective temperature set by the energy of the initial state. On the contrary, the two-point correlation functions of the transverse magnetization or the density-of-kinks operator decay as a power-law and do not exhibit thermal behavior. We argue that the different behavior is linked to the locality of the corresponding operator with respect to the quasi-particles of the model: non-local operators, such as the order parameter, behave thermally, while local ones do not. We study which features of the two-point correlators are a consequence of the integrability of the model by analizing their robustness with respect to a sufficiently strong integrability-breaking term.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

