---
layout: arxiv
title: 201101 Filtered arXiv Papers
---

**1.    Impossibility of Succinct Quantum Proofs for Collision-Freeness**  
Scott Aaronson  
http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.0403  
<blockquote>
<p>
We show that any quantum algorithm to decide whether a function f:[n]->[n] is a permutation or far from a permutation must make Omega(n^{1/3}/w) queries to f, even if the algorithm is given a w-qubit quantum witness in support of f being a permutation. This implies that there exists an oracle A such that SZK^A is not contained in QMA^A, answering an eight-year-old open question of the author. Indeed, we show that relative to some oracle, SZK is not in the counting class A0PP defined by Vyalyi. The proof is a fairly simple extension of the quantum lower bound for the collision problem.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**2.    Unitary Quantum Error Correction without Error Detection**  
Hiroyuki Tomita, Mikio Nakahara  
http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.0413  
<blockquote>
<p>
We propose a quantum error correction without error detection. A quantum state $\rho_0$ combined with an ancilla state $\sigma$ is encoded unitarily and an error operator is applied on the encoded state. The recovery operation then produces a tensor product state $\rho_0 \otimes \sigma'$. The decoding operation is combined with the recovery operation and the state $\rho_0$ is directly reproduced without referring to the code word. A higher rank projection operator required for a conventional operator quantum error correction is not necessary to implement. Encoding and the recovery operations are implemented with unitary operators only, which makes quantum error correction much easier than any other proposals.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**3.    Suppressing non-Markovian noises by coupling the qubit to a chaotic device**  
Jing Zhang, Yu-xi Liu, Wei-Min Zhang, Re-Bing Wu, Tzyh-Jong Tarn  
http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.0890  
<blockquote>
<p>
To suppress decoherence of solid-state qubits which are coupled to the non-Markovian noises, we propose a strategy to couple the qubit with a chaotic device, of which the broad power distribution in the high-frequency domain can be used to freeze the noises just like the dynamical decoupling control (DDC) method. Compared with the DDC, high-frequency components can be generated by the chaotic device even driven by a low-frequency field and we do not need to optimize the control fields to generate complex control pulses. As an application to superconducting circuits, we find that various noises in a wide frequency domain, including low-frequency $1/f$, high-frequency Ohmic, sub-Ohmic, and super-Ohmic noises, can be efficiently suppressed by coupling the qubit to a Duffing oscillator, and the decoherence rate of the qubit is efficiently decreased for about 100 times in magnitude.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**4.    Demonstration of reversible phase-insensitive optical amplifier**  
Jun-ichi Yoshikawa, Yoshichika Miwa, Radim Filip, Akira Furusawa  
Phys. Rev. A 83, 052307 (2011)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.1139  
<blockquote>
<p>
We experimentally demonstrate phase-insensitive linear optical amplification which preserves the idler at the output. Since our amplification operation is unitary up to small excess noise, it is reversible beyond the classical limit. The entanglement between the two output modes is the resource for the reversibility. The amplification gain of 2.0 is demonstrated. In addition, combining this amplifier with a beamsplitter, we also demonstrate approximate cloning of coherent states where an anticlone is present. We investigate the reversibility by reconstructing the initial state from the output correlations, and the results are slightly beyond the cloning limit. Furthermore, full characterization of the amplifier and cloner is given by using coherent states with several different mean values as inputs. Our amplifier is based on linear optics, offline preparation of nonclassical ancillas, and homodyne measurements followed by feedforward. Squeezed states are used as the ancillas, and nonlinear optical effects are exploited only for their generation. The ancillas introduce nonclassicality into the amplifying operation, making entanglement at the output.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**5.    Generation of topologically useful entangled states**  
Neil B. Lovett, Benjamin T. H. Varcoe  
http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.1220  
<blockquote>
<p>
Measurement based quantum computation requires the generation of a cluster state (quantum resource) prior to starting a computation. Generation of this entangled state can be difficult with many schemes already proposed. We present an abstract scheme which can create 2D cluster states as a universal resource for quantum computing. We find a linear scaling of grid size with cluster depth. The scheme is also capable of creating more exotic topologies including 3D structures and the unit cell for topological error correction. We note its relevance to the cavity QED scheme in [30] although it could be applied to various architectures.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**6.    Purcell factor for point-like dipolar emitter coupling to 2D-plasmonic waveguides**  
J. Barthes, G. Colas des Francs, A. Bouhelier, J-C. Weeber, A. Dereux  
Phys. Rev. B 84, 073403 (2011)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.1401  
<blockquote>
<p>
We theoretically investigate the spontaneous emission of a point--like dipolar emitter located near a two--dimensional (2D) plasmonic waveguide of arbitrary form. We invoke an explicite link with the density of modes of the waveguide describing the electromagnetic channels into which the emitter can couple. We obtain a closed form expression for the coupling to propagative plasmon, extending thus the Purcell factor to plasmonic configurations. Radiative and non-radiative contributions to the spontaneous emission are also discussed in details.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**7.    QCWAVE, a Mathematica quantum computer simulation update**  
Frank Tabakin, Bruno Julia-Diaz  
http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.1785  
<blockquote>
<p>
This Mathematica 7.0/8.0 package upgrades and extends the quantum computer simulation code called QDENSITY. Use of the density matrix was emphasized in QDENSITY, although that code was also applicable to a quantum state description. In the present version, the quantum state version is stressed and made amenable to future extensions to parallel computer simulations. The add-on QCWAVE extends QDENSITY in several ways. The first way is to describe the action of one, two and three- qubit quantum gates as a set of small ($2 \times 2, 4\times 4$ or $8\times 8$) matrices acting on the $2^{n_q}$ amplitudes for a system of $n_q$ qubits. This procedure was described in our parallel computer simulation QCMPI and is reviewed here. The advantage is that smaller storage demands are made, without loss of speed, and that the procedure can take advantage of message passing interface (MPI) techniques, which will hopefully be generally available in future Mathematica versions. Another extension of QDENSITY provided here is a multiverse approach, as described in our QCMPI paper. This multiverse approach involves using the present slave-master parallel processing capabilities of Mathematica 7.0/8.0 to simulate errors and error correction. The basic idea is that parallel versions of QCWAVE run simultaneously with random errors introduced on some of the processors, with an ensemble average used to represent the real world situation. Within this approach, error correction steps can be simulated and their efficacy tested. This capability allows one to examine the detrimental effects of errors and the benefits of error correction on particular quantum algorithms.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**8.    The scalable quantum computation based on quantum dot systems**  
Jian-Qi Zhang, Ya-Fei Yu, Xun-Li Feng, Zhi-Ming Zhang  
http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.1818  
<blockquote>
<p>
We propose a scheme for realizing the scalable quantum computation based on nonidentical quantum dots trapped in a single-mode waveguide. In this system, the quantum dots simultaneously interact with a large detuned waveguide and classical light fields. During the process, neither the waveguide mode nor the quantum dots are excited, while the sub-system composed of any two quantum dots can acquire phases conditional upon the states of these two quantum dots and the certain detunings between the waveguide mode and corresponding external light fields. Therefore, it can be used to realize selective quantum phase gates, graph states, $N$-qubit controlled phase $\pi $ gates, and cluster states.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**9.    The Fidelity of an Encoded [7,1,3] Logical Zero**  
Yaakov S. Weinstein  
Phys. Rev. A 84, 012323 (2011)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.1950  
<blockquote>
<p>
I calculate the fidelity of a [7,1,3] CSS quantum error correction code logical zero state constructed in a non-equiprobable Pauli operator error environment for two methods of encoding. The first method is to apply fault tolerant error correction to an arbitrary state of 7 qubits utilizing Shor states for syndrome measurement. The Shor states are themselves constructed in the non-equiprobable Pauli operator error environment and their fidelity depends on the number of verifications done to ensure multiple errors will not propagate into the encoded quantum information. Surprisingly, performing these verifications may lower the fidelity of the constructed Shor states. The second encoding method is to simply implement the $[7,1,3]$ encoding gate sequence also in the non-equiprobable Pauli operator error environment. Perfect error correction is applied after both methods to determine the correctability of the implemented errors. I find that which method attains a higher fidelity depends on the which of Pauli operator errors is dominant. Nevertheless, perfect error correction supresses errors to at least first order for both methods.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**10.    Simulation of Quantum Mechanics Using Reactive Programming**  
Frédéric Boussinot  
http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.2133  
<blockquote>
<p>
We implement in a reactive programming framework a simulation of three aspects of quantum mechanics: self-interference, state superposition, and entanglement. The simulation basically consists in a cellular automaton embedded in a synchronous environment which defines global discrete instants and broadcast events. The implementation shows how a simulation of fundamental aspects of quantum mechanics can be obtained from the synchronous parallel combination of a small number of elementary components.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**11.    Disordered Quantum Walks in one lattice dimension**  
Andre Ahlbrecht, Volkher B. Scholz, Albert H. Werner  
J. Math. Phys. 52, 102201 (2011)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.2298  
<blockquote>
<p>
We study a spin-1/2-particle moving on a one dimensional lattice subject to disorder induced by a random, space-dependent quantum coin. The discrete time evolution is given by a family of random unitary quantum walk operators, where the shift operation is assumed to be deterministic. Each coin is an independent identically distributed random variable with values in the group of two dimensional unitary matrices. We derive sufficient conditions on the probability distribution of the coins such that the system exhibits dynamical localization. Put differently, the tunneling probability between two lattice sites decays rapidly for almost all choices of random coins and after arbitrary many time steps with increasing distance. Our findings imply that this effect takes place if the coin is chosen at random from the Haar measure, or some measure continuous with respect to it, but also for a class of discrete probability measures which support consists of two coins, one of them being the Hadamard coin.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**12.    Quantifying the Performance of Quantum Codes**  
C. Cafaro, S. L'Innocente, C. Lupo, S. Mancini  
Open Sys. & Information Dyn. 18, 1 (2011)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.2409  
<blockquote>
<p>
We study the properties of error correcting codes for noise models in the presence of asymmetries and/or correlations by means of the entanglement fidelity and the code entropy. First, we consider a dephasing Markovian memory channel and characterize the performance of both a repetition code and an error avoiding code in terms of the entanglement fidelity. We also consider the concatenation of such codes and show that it is especially advantageous in the regime of partial correlations. Finally, we characterize the effectiveness of the codes and their concatenation by means of the code entropy and find, in particular, that the effort required for recovering such codes decreases when the error probability decreases and the memory parameter increases. Second, we consider both symmetric and asymmetric depolarizing noisy quantum memory channels and perform quantum error correction via the five qubit stabilizer code. We characterize this code by means of the entanglement fidelity and the code entropy as function of the asymmetric error probabilities and the degree of memory. Specifically, we uncover that while the asymmetry in the depolarizing errors does not affect the entanglement fidelity of the five qubit code, it becomes a relevant feature when the code entropy is used as a performance quantifier.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**13.    Continuous-Time Quantum Walks: Models for Coherent Transport on Complex Networks**  
Oliver Muelken, Alexander Blumen  
Physics Reports 502, 37-87 (2011)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.2572  
<blockquote>
<p>
This paper reviews recent advances in continuous-time quantum walks (CTQW) and their application to transport in various systems. The introduction gives a brief survey of the historical background of CTQW. After a short outline of the theoretical ideas behind CTQW and of its relation to classical continuous-time random walks (CTRW) in Sec.~2, implications for the efficiency of the transport are presented in Sec.~3. The fourth section gives an overview of different types of networks on which CTQW have been studied so far. Extensions of CTQW to systems with long-range interactions and with static disorder are discussed in section V. Systems with traps, i.e., systems in which the walker's probability to remain inside the system is not conserved, are presented in section IV. Relations to similar approaches to the transport are studied in section VII. The paper closes with an outlook on possible future directions.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**14.    Decoherence and disorder in quantum walks: From ballistic spread to localization**  
A. Schreiber, K. N. Cassemiro, V. Poto?ek, A. Gábris, I. Jex, Ch. Silberhorn  
Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 180403 (2011)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.2638  
<blockquote>
<p>
We investigate the impact of decoherence and static disorder on the dynamics of quantum particles moving in a periodic lattice. Our experiment relies on the photonic implementation of a one-dimensional quantum walk. The pure quantum evolution is characterized by a ballistic spread of a photon's wave packet along 28 steps. By applying controlled time-dependent operations we simulate three different environmental influences on the system, resulting in a fast ballistic spread, a diffusive classical walk and the first Anderson localization in a discrete quantum walk architecture.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**15.    Enhanced Quantum Communication via Optical Refocusing**  
Cosmo Lupo, Vittorio Giovannetti, Stefano Pirandola, Stefano Mancini, Seth Lloyd  
Phys. Rev. A 84, 010303(R) (2011)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.2649  
<blockquote>
<p>
We consider the problem of quantum communication mediated by an optical refocusing system, which is schematized as a thin lens with a finite pupil. This model captures the basic features of all those situations in which a signal is either refocused by a repeater for long distance communication, or it is focused on a detector prior to the information decoding process. Introducing a general method for linear optical systems, we compute the communication capacity of the refocusing apparatus. Although the finite extension of the pupil may cause loss of information, we show that the presence of the refocusing system can substantially enhance the rate of reliable communication with respect to the free-space propagation.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**16.    Continuous-variable quantum key distribution protocols with a non-Gaussian modulation**  
Anthony Leverrier, Philippe Grangier  
Phys. Rev. A 83, 042312 (2011)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.3008  
<blockquote>
<p>
In this paper, we consider continuous-variable quantum key distribution (QKD) protocols which use non-Gaussian modulations. These specific modulation schemes are compatible with very efficient error correction procedures, hence allowing the protocols to outperform previous protocols in terms of achievable range. In their simplest implementation, these protocols are secure for any linear quantum channels (hence against Gaussian attacks). We also show how the use of decoy states makes the protocols secure against arbitrary collective attacks, which implies their unconditional security in the asymptotic limit.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**17.    Coherent-feedback control strategy to suppress spontaneous switching in ultra-low power optical bistability**  
Hideo Mabuchi  
http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.3461  
<blockquote>
<p>
An optical resonator with intracavity Kerr nonlinearity can exhibit dispersive bistability suitable for all-optical switching. With nanophotonic elements it may be possible to achieve attojoule switching energies, which would be very attractive for ultra-low power operation but potentially problematic because of quantum fluctuation-induced spontaneous switching. In this manuscript I derive a quantum-optical model of two Kerr-nonlinear ring resonators connected in a coherent feedback loop, and show via numerical simulation that a properly designed `controller' cavity can significantly reduce the spontaneous switching rate of a bistable `plant' cavity in a completely embedded and autonomous manner.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**18.    Photonic Quantum Computation with Waveguide-Linked Optical Cavities and Quantum Dots**  
Makoto Yamaguchi, Takashi Asano, Yoshiya Sato, Susumu Noda  
http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.3508  
<blockquote>
<p>
We propose a new scheme for solid-state photonic quantum computation in which trapped photons in optical cavities are taken as a quantum bit. Quantum gates can be realized by coupling the cavities with quantum dots through waveguides. The proposed scheme allows programmable and deterministic gate operations and the system can be scaled up to many quantum bits.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**19.    Quantum Computing over Finite Fields**  
Roshan P. James, Gerardo Ortiz, Amr Sabry  
http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.3764  
<blockquote>
<p>
In recent work, Benjamin Schumacher and Michael~D. Westmoreland investigate a version of quantum mechanics which they call "modal quantum theory" but which we prefer to call "discrete quantum theory". This theory is obtained by instantiating the mathematical framework of Hilbert spaces with a finite field instead of the field of complex numbers. This instantiation collapses much the structure of actual quantum mechanics but retains several of its distinguishing characteristics including the notions of superposition, interference, and entanglement. Furthermore, discrete quantum theory excludes local hidden variable models, has a no-cloning theorem, and can express natural counterparts of quantum information protocols such as superdense coding and teleportation. Our first result is to distill a model of discrete quantum computing from this quantum theory. The model is expressed using a monadic metalanguage built on top of a universal reversible language for finite computations, and hence is directly implementable in a language like Haskell. In addition to superpositions and invertible linear maps, the model includes conventional programming constructs including pairs, sums, higher-order functions, and recursion. Our second result is to relate this programming model to relational programming, e.g., a pure version of Prolog over finite relations. Surprisingly discrete quantum computing is identical to conventional logic programming except for a small twist that is responsible for all the ``quantum-ness.'' The twist occurs when merging sets of answers computed by several alternatives: the answers are combined using an "exclusive" version of logical disjunction. In other words, the two branches of a choice junction exhibit an "interference" effect: an answer is produced from the junction if it occurs in one or the other branch but not both.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**20.    Highly Entangled States With Almost No Secrecy**  
Matthias Christandl, Norbert Schuch, Andreas Winter  
Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 240405 (2010)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.4522  
<blockquote>
<p>
In this paper we illuminate the relation between entanglement and secrecy by providing the first example of a quantum state that is highly entangled, but from which, nevertheless, almost no secrecy can be extracted. More precisely, we provide two bounds on the bipartite entanglement of the totally antisymmetric state in dimension d x d. First, we show that the amount of secrecy that can be extracted from the state is low, to be precise it is bounded by O(1/d). Second, we show that the state is highly entangled in the sense that we need a large amount of singlets to create the state: entanglement cost is larger than a constant, independent of d. In order to obtain our results we use representation theory, linear programming and the entanglement measure known as squashed entanglement. Our findings also clarify the relation between the squashed entanglement and the relative entropy of entanglement.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**21.    Optical realization of the two-site Bose-Hubbard model in waveguide lattices**  
Stefano Longhi  
J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 44 (2011) 051001  
http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.4762  
<blockquote>
<p>
A classical realization of the two-site Bose-Hubbard Hamiltonian, based on light transport in engineered optical waveguide lattices, is theoretically proposed. The optical lattice enables a direct visualization of the Bose-Hubbard dynamics in Fock space.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**22.    Quantum anticentrifugal potential in a bent waveguide**  
R. Dandoloff, V. Atanasov  
http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.5081  
<blockquote>
<p>
We show the existence of an anticentrifugal force for a quantum particle in a bent waveguide. This counterintuitive force due to dimensionality was shown to exist in a flat $R^2$ space but there it needs an additional $\delta$-like potential at the origin in order to brake the translational invariance and to exhibit localized states. In the case of the bent waveguide there is no need of any additional potential since here the boundary conditions break the symmetry. The effect may be observed in interference experiments which are sensitive to the additional phase of the wavefunction gained in the bent regions and can find application in distinguishing between straight and bent geometries.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**23.    Phase shift spectra of a fiber-microsphere system at the single photon level**  
Akira Tanaka, Takeshi Asai, Kiyota Toubaru, Hideaki Takashima, Masazumi Fujiwara, Ryo Okamoto, Shigeki Takeuchi  
Optics Express, Vol. 19, Issue 3, pp. 2278-2285 (2011)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.5198  
<blockquote>
<p>
We succeeded in measuring phase shift spectra of a microsphere cavity coupled with a tapered fiber using a weak coherent probe light at the single photon level. We utilized a tapered fiber with almost no depolarization and constructed a very stable phase shift measurement scheme based on polarization analysis using photon counting. Using a very weak probe light (\bar{n} = 0:41), we succeeded in observing the transition in the phase shift spectrum between undercoupling and overcoupling (at gap distances of 500 and 100 nm, respectively).We also used quantum state tomography to obtain a 'purity spectrum'. Even in the overcoupling regime, the average purity was 0.982 \pm 0.024 (minimum purity: 0.892), suggesting that the coherence of the fiber-microsphere system was well preserved. Based on these results, we believe this system is applicable to quantum phase gates using single light emitters such as diamond nitrogen vacancy centers.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**24.    Advice Coins for Classical and Quantum Computation**  
Scott Aaronson, Andrew Drucker  
http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.5355  
<blockquote>
<p>
We study the power of classical and quantum algorithms equipped with nonuniform advice, in the form of a coin whose bias encodes useful information. This question takes on particular importance in the quantum case, due to a surprising result that we prove: a quantum finite automaton with just two states can be sensitive to arbitrarily small changes in a coin's bias. This contrasts with classical probabilistic finite automata, whose sensitivity to changes in a coin's bias is bounded by a classic 1970 result of Hellman and Cover. Despite this finding, we are able to bound the power of advice coins for space-bounded classical and quantum computation. We define the classes BPPSPACE/coin and BQPSPACE/coin, of languages decidable by classical and quantum polynomial-space machines with advice coins. Our main theorem is that both classes coincide with PSPACE/poly. Proving this result turns out to require substantial machinery. We use an algorithm due to Neff for finding roots of polynomials in NC; a result from algebraic geometry that lower-bounds the separation of a polynomial's roots; and a result on fixed-points of superoperators due to Aaronson and Watrous, originally proved in the context of quantum computing with closed timelike curves.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**25.    A family of generalized Horodecki-like entangled states**  
Dariusz Chru?ciński, Adam Rutkowski  
Phys. Lett. A 375, 2793 (2011)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.5754  
<blockquote>
<p>
We provide a multi-parameter family of 2-qudit PPT entangled states which generalizes the celebrated Horodecki state in 3 x 3. The entanglement of this family is identified via semidefinite programming based on "PPT symmetric extensions" by Doherty et al.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**26.    Low power inelastic light scattering at small detunings in silicon wire waveguides at telecom wavelengths**  
S. Clemmen, A. Perret, J. Saffioui, W. Bogaerts, R. Baets, S.-P. Gorza, Ph. Emplit, S. Massar  
http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.5841  
<blockquote>
<p>
When a pump beam is propagating through a silicon nanophotonic waveguide, a very small fraction of the light is scattered to other frequencies. At very low intensity, the amount of scattered light is proportional to the power of the pump beam. We show that the scattering intensity increases linearly within the temperature range 300-575 K and that the photon flux decreases as the inverse of the frequency detuning {\nu} over the investigated bandwidth 0.4 THz < |{\nu}| < 2.5 THz. The simplest interpretation of these observations is that the pump beam is scattered on a 1 dimensional thermal bath of excitations. Finally, the implications of this scattering process for quantum optics applications of silicon nanophotonic structures are discussed.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**27.    Bringing order through disorder: Localization of errors in topological quantum memories**  
James R. Wootton, Jiannis K. Pachos  
Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 030503 (2011)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.5900  
<blockquote>
<p>
Anderson localization emerges in quantum systems when randomised parameters cause the exponential suppression of motion. Here we consider this phenomenon in topological models and establish its usefulness for protecting topologically encoded quantum information. For concreteness we employ the toric code. It is known that in the absence of a magnetic field this can tolerate a finite initial density of anyonic errors, but in the presence of a field anyonic quantum walks are induced and the tolerable density becomes zero. However, if the disorder inherent in the code is taken into account, we demonstrate that the induced localization allows the topological quantum memory to regain a finite critical anyon density, and the memory to remain stable for arbitrarily long times. We anticipate that disorder inherent in any physical realisation of topological systems will help to strengthen the fault-tolerance of quantum memories.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**28.    Localization of Toric Code Defects**  
Cyril Stark, Lode Pollet, Atac Imamoglu, Renato Renner  
Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 030504 (2011)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.6028  
<blockquote>
<p>
We explore the possibility of passive error correction in the toric code model. We first show that even coherent dynamics, stemming from spin interactions or the coupling to an external magnetic field, lead to logical errors. We then argue that Anderson localization of the defects, arising from unavoidable fluctuations of the coupling constants, provides a remedy. This protection is demonstrated using general analytical arguments that are complemented with numerical results which demonstrate that self-correcting memory can in principle be achieved in the limit of a nonzero density of identical defects.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**29.    From quantum pulse gate to quantum pulse shaper -- enigneered frequency conversion in nonlinear optical waveguides**  
Benjamin Brecht, Andreas Eckstein, Andreas Christ, Hubertus Suche, Christine Silberhorn  
New J. Phys. 13 (2011) 065029  
http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.6060  
<blockquote>
<p>
Full control over the spatio-temporal structure of quantum states of light is an important goal in quantum optics, to generate for instance single-mode quantum pulses or to encode information on multiple modes, enhancing channel capacities. Quantum light pulses feature an inherent, rich spectral broadband-mode structure. In recent years, exploring the use of integrated optics as well as source-engineering has led to a deep understanding of the pulse-mode structure of guided quantum states of light. In addition, several groups have started to investigate the manipulation of quantum states by means of single-photon frequency conversion. In this paper we explore new routes towards complete control of the inherent pulse-modes of ultrafast pulsed quantum states by employing specifically designed nonlinear waveguides with adapted dispersion properties. Starting from our recently proposed quantum pulse gate (QPG) we further generalize the concept of spatio-spectral engineering for arbitrary $\chitwo$-based quantum processes. We analyse the sum-frequency generation based QPG and introduce the difference-frequency generation based quantum pulse shaper (QPS). Together, these versatile and robust integrated optics devices allow for arbitrary manipulations of the pulse-mode structure of ultrafast pulsed quantum states. The QPG can be utilized to select an arbitrary pulse mode from a multimode input state, whereas the QPS enables the generation of specific pulse modes from an input wavepacket with Gaussian-shaped spectrum.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**30.    Variety of c-axis collective excitations in layered multigap superconductors**  
Yukihiro Ota, Masahiko Machida, Tomio Koyama  
Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 157001 (2010)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.0886  
<blockquote>
<p>
We present a dynamical theory for the phase differences along a stacked direction of intrinsic Josephson junctions (IJJ's) in layered multigap superconductors, motivated by the discovery of highly-anisotropic iron-based superconductors with thick perovskite-type blocking layers. The dynamical equations describing AC and DC intrinsic Josephson effects peculiar to multigap IJJ's are derived, and collective Leggett mode excitations in addition to the Josephson plasma established in single-gap IJJ's are predicted. The dispersion relations of their collective modes are explicitly displayed, and the remarkable peculiarity of the Leggett mode is demonstrated.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**31.    Impact of surface imperfections on the Casimir force for lenses of centimeter-size curvature radii**  
V. B. Bezerra, G. L. Klimchitskaya, U. Mohideen, V. M. Mostepanenko, C. Romero  
Phys. Rev. B, v.83, 075417-(1-13) (2011)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.2244  
<blockquote>
<p>
The impact of imperfections, which are always present on surfaces of lenses with centimeter-size curvature radii, on the Casimir force in the lens-plate geometry is investigated. It is shown that the commonly used formulation of the proximity force approximation is inapplicable for spherical lenses with surface imperfections, such as bubbles and pits. More general expressions for the Casimir force are derived that take surface imperfections into account. Using these expressions we show that surface imperfections can both increase and decrease the magnitude of the Casimir force up to a few tens of percent when compared with the case of a perfectly spherical lens. We demonstrate that the Casimir force between a perfectly spherical lens and a plate described by the Drude model can be made approximately equal to the force between a sphere with some surface imperfection and a plate described by the plasma model, and vice versa. In the case of a metallic sphere and semiconductor plate, approximately the same Casimir forces are obtained for four different descriptions of charge carriers in the semiconductor if appropriate surface imperfections on the lens surface are present. The conclusion is made that there is a fundamental problem in the interpretation of measurement data for the Casimir force, obtained by using spherical lenses of centimeter-size radii, and their comparison with theory.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**32.    Non-Markovian dynamics of a nanomechanical resonator measured by a quantum point contact**  
Po-Wen Chen, Chung-Chin Jian, Hsi-Sheng Goan  
Phys. Rev. B 83, 115439 (2011). (note of Ref.76 added in the published version)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.2393  
<blockquote>
<p>
We study the dynamics of a nanomechanical resonator (NMR) subject to a measurement by a low transparency quantum point contact (QPC) or tunnel junction in the non-Markovian domain. We derive the non-Markovian number-resolved (conditional) and unconditional master equations valid to second order in the tunneling Hamiltonian without making the rotating-wave approximation and the Markovian approximation, generally made for systems in quantum optics. Our non-Markovian master equation reduces, in appropriate limits, to various Markovian versions of master equations in the literature. We find considerable difference in dynamics between the non-Markovian cases and its Markovian counterparts. We also calculate the time-dependent transport current through the QPC which contains information about the measured NMR system. We find an extra transient current term proportional to the expectation value of the symmetrized product of the position and momentum operators of the NMR. This extra current term, with a coefficient coming from the combination of the imaginary parts of the QPC reservoir correlation functions, has a substantial contribution to the total transient current in the non-Markovian case, but was generally ignored in the studies of the same problem in the literature. Considering the contribution of this extra term, we show that a significantly qualitative and quantitative difference in the total transient current between the non-Markovian and the Markovian wide-band-limit cases can be observed. Thus, it may serve as a witness or signature of the non-Markovian features in the coupled NMR-QPC system.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**33.    The structures of state space concerning Quantum Dynamical Semigroups**  
Bernhard Baumgartner, Heide Narnhofer  
http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.3914  
<blockquote>
<p>
Each semigroup describing the time evolution of an open quantum system on a finite dimensional Hilbert space is related to a special structure of this space. It is shown how the space can be decomposed into subspaces: One is related to decay, orthogonal subspaces support the stationary states. Specialities where the complete positivity of evolutions is actually needed for analysis, mainly for evolution of coherence, are highlighted. Decompositions are done the same way for evolutions in discrete as in continuous time, but evolutions may show differences, only for discrete semigroups there may appear cases of sudden decay and of perpetual oscillation. Concluding the analysis we identify the relation of the state space structure to the processes of Decay, Decoherence, Dissipation and Dephasing.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**34.    Dynamical decoupling and noise spectroscopy with a superconducting flux qubit**  
Jonas Bylander, Simon Gustavsson, Fei Yan, Fumiki Yoshihara, Khalil Harrabi, George Fitch, David G. Cory, Yasunobu Nakamura, Jaw-Shen Tsai, William D. Oliver  
Nature Phys. vol. 7, pp. 565-570 (2011)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.4707  
<blockquote>
<p>
The characterization and mitigation of decoherence in natural and artificial two-level systems (qubits) is fundamental to quantum information science and its applications. Decoherence of a quantum superposition state arises from the interaction between the constituent system and the uncontrolled degrees of freedom in its environment. Within the standard Bloch-Redfield picture of two-level system dynamics, qubit decoherence is characterized by two rates: a longitudinal relaxation rate Gamma1 due to the exchange of energy with the environment, and a transverse relaxation rate Gamma2 = Gamma1/2 + Gamma_phi which contains the pure dephasing rate Gamma_phi. Irreversible energy relaxation can only be mitigated by reducing the amount of environmental noise, reducing the qubit's internal sensitivity to that noise, or through multi-qubit encoding and error correction protocols (which already presume ultra-low error rates). In contrast, dephasing is in principle reversible and can be refocused dynamically through the application of coherent control pulse methods. In this work we demonstrate how dynamical-decoupling techniques can moderate the dephasing effects of low-frequency noise on a superconducting qubit with energy-relaxation time T1 = 1/Gamma1 = 12 us. Using the CPMG sequence with up to 200 pi-pulses, we demonstrate a 50-fold improvement in the transverse relaxation time T2 over its baseline value. We observe relaxation-limited times T2(CPMG) = 23 us = 2 T1 resulting from CPMG-mediated Gaussian pure-dephasing times in apparent excess of 100 us. We leverage the filtering property of this sequence in conjunction with Rabi and energy relaxation measurements to facilitate the spectroscopy and reconstruction of the environmental noise power spectral density.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**35.    Phenomenological Study of Decoherence in Solid-State Spin Qubits due to Nuclear Spin Diffusion**  
M. J. Biercuk, H. Bluhm  
http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.5189  
<blockquote>
<p>
We present a study of the prospects for coherence preservation in solid-state spin qubits using dynamical decoupling protocols. Recent experiments have provided the first demonstrations of multipulse dynamical decoupling sequences in this qubit system, but quantitative analyses of potential coherence improvements have been hampered by a lack of concrete knowledge of the relevant noise processes. We present simulations of qubit coherence under the application of arbitrary dynamical decoupling pulse sequences based on an experimentally validated semiclassical model. This phenomenological approach bundles the details of underlying noise processes into a single experimentally relevant noise power spectral density. Our results show that the dominant features of experimental measurements in a two-electron singlet-triplet spin qubit can be replicated using a $1/\omega^{2}$ noise power spectrum associated with nuclear-spin-flips in the host material. Beginning with this validation we address the effects of nuclear programming, high-frequency nuclear-spin dynamics, and other high-frequency classical noise sources, with conjectures supported by physical arguments and microscopic calculations where relevant. Our results provide expected performance bounds and identify diagnostic metrics that can be measured experimentally in order to better elucidate the underlying nuclear spin dynamics.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**36.    Quantum Convex Support**  
Stephan Weis  
Linear Algebra and its Applications 435 (2011) 3168-3188, correction: 436 xvi (2012)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.3098  
<blockquote>
<p>
Convex support, the mean values of a set of random variables, is central in information theory and statistics. Equally central in quantum information theory are mean values of a set of observables in a finite-dimensional C*-algebra A, which we call (quantum) convex support. The convex support can be viewed as a projection of the state space of A and it is a projection of a spectrahedron. Spectrahedra are increasingly investigated at least since the 1990's boom in semidefinite programming. We recall the geometry of the positive semi-definite cone and of the state space. We write a convex duality for general self-dual convex cones. This restricts to projections of state spaces and connects them to results on spectrahedra. Really new in this article is an analysis of the face lattice of convex support by mapping this lattice to a lattice of orthogonal projections, using natural isomorphisms. The result encodes the face lattice of the convex support into a set of projections in A and enables the integration of convex geometry with matrix calculus or algebraic techniques.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**37.    Superiority of exact quantum automata for promise problems**  
Andris Ambainis, Abuzer Yakaryilmaz  
Information Processing Letters, Volume 112, Issue 7, 31 March 2012, Pages 289-291  
http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.3837  
<blockquote>
<p>
In this note, we present an infinite family of promise problems which can be solved exactly by just tuning transition amplitudes of a two-state quantum finite automata operating in realtime mode, whereas the size of the corresponding classical automata grow without bound.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

