---
layout: arxiv
title: 201105 Filtered arXiv Papers
---

**1.    Experimental investigation of initial system-environment correlations via trace distance evolution**  
Andrea Smirne, Davide Brivio, Simone Cialdi, Bassano Vacchini, Matteo G. A. Paris  
Phys. Rev. A 84, 032112 (2011)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.0174  
<blockquote>
<p>
The trace distance between two states of an open quantum system quantifies their distinguishability, and for a fixed environmental state can increase above its initial value only in the presence of initial system-environment correlations. We provide for the first time experimental evidence of such a behavior. In our all-optical apparatus we exploit spontaneous parametric down conversion as a source of polarization entangled states, and a spatial light modulator to introduce in a general fashion correlations between the polarization and the momentum degrees of freedom, which act as environment.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**2.    Implications of Electronics Constraints for Solid-State Quantum Error Correction and Quantum Circuit Failure Probability**  
James E. Levy, Malcolm S. Carroll, Anand Ganti, Cynthia A. Phillips, Andrew J. Landahl, Thomas M. Gurrieri, Robert D. Carr, Harold L. Stalford, Erik Nielsen  
New Journal of Physics, Vol 13, 083021, 2011  
http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.0682  
<blockquote>
<p>
In this paper we present the impact of classical electronics constraints on a solid-state quantum dot logical qubit architecture. Constraints due to routing density, bandwidth allocation, signal timing, and thermally aware placement of classical supporting electronics significantly affect the quantum error correction circuit's error rate. We analyze one level of a quantum error correction circuit using nine data qubits in a Bacon-Shor code configured as a quantum memory. A hypothetical silicon double quantum dot quantum bit (qubit) is used as the fundamental element. A pessimistic estimate of the error probability of the quantum circuit is calculated using the total number of gates and idle time using a provably optimal schedule for the circuit operations obtained with an integer program methodology. The micro-architecture analysis provides insight about the different ways the electronics impact the circuit performance (e.g., extra idle time in the schedule), which can significantly limit the ultimate performance of any quantum circuit and therefore is a critical foundation for any future larger scale architecture analysis.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**3.    Two-Site Quantum Random Walk**  
Stan Gudder, Rafael D. Sorkin  
http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.0705  
<blockquote>
<p>
We study the measure theory of a two-site quantum random walk. The truncated decoherence functional defines a quantum measure $\mu_n$ on the space of $n$-paths, and the $\mu_n$ in turn induce a quantum measure $\mu$ on the cylinder sets within the space $\Omega$ of untruncated paths. Although $\mu$ cannot be extended to a continuous quantum measure on the full $\sigma$-algebra generated by the cylinder sets, an important question is whether it can be extended to sufficiently many physically relevant subsets of $\Omega$ in a systematic way. We begin an investigation of this problem by showing that $\mu$ can be extended to a quantum measure on a "quadratic algebra" of subsets of $\Omega$ that properly contains the cylinder sets. We also present a new characterization of the quantum integral on the $n$-path space.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**4.    Bound Molecules in an Interacting Quantum Walk**  
Andre Ahlbrecht, Andrea Alberti, Dieter Meschede, Volkher B. Scholz, Albert H. Werner, Reinhard F. Werner  
http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.1051  
<blockquote>
<p>
We investigate a system of two atoms in an optical lattice, performing a quantum walk by state-dependent shift operations and a coin operation acting on the internal states. The atoms interact, e.g., by cold collisions, whenever they are in the same potential well of the lattice. Under such conditions they typically develop a bound state, so that the two atoms effectively perform a quantum walk together, rarely moving further from each other than a few lattice sites. The theoretical analysis is based on a theory of quantum walks with a point defect, applied to the difference variable. We also discuss the feasibility of an experimental realization in existing quantum walk experiments.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**5.    Non-Markovian Diffusive Unravellings of Entanglement**  
Brittany Corn, Jun Jing, Ting Yu  
http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.1358  
<blockquote>
<p>
The fully quantized model of two qubits coupled to a common bath is solved using the quantum state diffusion (QSD) approach in the non-Markovian regime. We have established an explicit time-local non-Markovian QSD equation for the two-qubit dissipative model. Diffusive quantum trajectories are applied to the entanglement estimation of two-qubit systems in a non-Markovian regime. In another interesting example, we have also considered exact entanglement unravellings for a dephasing model. In both cases, non-Markovian features of entanglement evolution are revealed through quantum diffusive unravellings in the qubit state space.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**6.    Integrated photonic quantum gates for polarization qubits**  
Andrea Crespi, Roberta Ramponi, Roberto Osellame, Linda Sansoni, Irene Bongioanni, Fabio Sciarrino, Giuseppe Vallone, Paolo Mataloni  
Nature Commun. 2, 566 (2011) (Open access)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.1454  
<blockquote>
<p>
Integrated photonic circuits have a strong potential to perform quantum information processing. Indeed, the ability to manipulate quantum states of light by integrated devices may open new perspectives both for fundamental tests of quantum mechanics and for novel technological applications. However, the technology for handling polarization encoded qubits, the most commonly adopted approach, is still missing in quantum optical circuits. Here we demonstrate the first integrated photonic Controlled-NOT (CNOT) gate for polarization encoded qubits. This result has been enabled by the integration, based on femtosecond laser waveguide writing, of partially polarizing beam splitters on a glass chip. We characterize the logical truth table of the quantum gate demonstrating its high fidelity to the expected one. In addition, we show the ability of this gate to transform separable states into entangled ones and vice versa. Finally, the full accessibility of our device is exploited to carry out a complete characterization of the CNOT gate through a quantum process tomography.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**7.    A Dynamic Programming Approach to Finite-horizon Coherent Quantum LQG Control**  
Igor G. Vladimirov, Ian R. Petersen  
http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.1574  
<blockquote>
<p>
The paper is concerned with the coherent quantum Linear Quadratic Gaussian (CQLQG) control problem for time-varying quantum plants governed by linear quantum stochastic differential equations over a bounded time interval. A controller is sought among quantum linear systems satisfying physical realizability (PR) conditions. The latter describe the dynamic equivalence of the system to an open quantum harmonic oscillator and relate its state-space matrices to the free Hamiltonian, coupling and scattering operators of the oscillator. Using the Hamiltonian parameterization of PR controllers, the CQLQG problem is recast into an optimal control problem for a deterministic system governed by a differential Lyapunov equation. The state of this subsidiary system is the symmetric part of the quantum covariance matrix of the plant-controller state vector. The resulting covariance control problem is treated using dynamic programming and Pontryagin's minimum principle. The associated Hamilton-Jacobi-Bellman equation for the minimum cost function involves Frechet differentiation with respect to matrix-valued variables. The gain matrices of the CQLQG optimal controller are shown to satisfy a quasi-separation property as a weaker quantum counterpart of the filtering/control decomposition of classical LQG controllers.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**8.    Quantum Simulation of Phylogenetic Trees**  
Demosthenes Ellinas, Peter Jarvis  
http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.1582  
<blockquote>
<p>
Quantum simulations constructing probability tensors of biological multi-taxa in phylogenetic trees are proposed, in terms of positive trace preserving maps, describing evolving systems of quantum walks with multiple walkers. Basic phylogenetic models applying on trees of various topologies are simulated following appropriate decoherent quantum circuits. Quantum simulations of statistical inference for aligned sequences of biological characters are provided in terms of a quantum pruning map operating on likelihood operator observables, utilizing state-observable duality and measurement theory.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**9.    Quantum Walk of Two Interacting Bosons**  
Yoav Lahini, Mor Verbin, Sebastian D. Huber, Yaron Bromberg, Rami Pugatch, Yaron Silberberg  
http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.2273  
<blockquote>
<p>
We study the effect of interactions on the bosonic two-particle quantum walk and its corresponding spatial correlations. The combined effect of interactions and Hanbury-Brown Twiss interference results in unique spatial correlations which depend on the strength of the interaction, but not on its sign. The results are explained in light of the two-particle spectrum and the physics of attractively and repulsively bound pairs. We experimentally measure the weak interaction limit of these effects in nonlinear photonic lattices. Finally, we discuss an experimental approach to observe the strong interaction limit using single atoms in optical lattices.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**10.    Crossovers in the non-Markovian dynamics of two-qubit entanglements**  
Shin-Tza Wu  
Chin J Phys, 50, 118 (2012)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.2859  
<blockquote>
<p>
We study the entanglement dynamics of two non-interacting, spatially separated qubits subject to local environment noises. Based on exactly solvable models for non-Markovian amplitude damping and phase damping noises, we are able to analyze the entanglement dynamics of the two qubits for different coupling bandwidths and different detunings. We show that entanglement oscillations can occur for both amplitude and phase damping noises. Moreover, we demonstrate that changing the coupling bandwidth can lead to crossover between dissipative and non-dissipative entanglement dynamics, while varying the detuning controls the crossover between strong and weak coupling limits. Our findings can help provide a synthesized picture for the entanglement dynamics of two qubits subject to local environment noises.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**11.    Span Programs for Functions with Constant-Sized 1-certificates**  
Aleksandrs Belovs  
http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.4024  
<blockquote>
<p>
Besides the Hidden Subgroup Problem, the second large class of quantum speed-ups is for functions with constant-sized 1-certificates. This includes the OR function, solvable by the Grover algorithm, the distinctness, the triangle and other problems. The usual way to solve them is by quantum walk on the Johnson graph. We propose a solution for the same problems using span programs. The span program is a computational model equivalent to the quantum query algorithm in its strength, and yet very different in its outfit. We prove the power of our approach by designing a quantum algorithm for the triangle problem with query complexity $O(n^{35/27})$ that is better than $O(n^{13/10})$ of the best previously known algorithm by Magniez et al.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**12.    A quantum no-reflection theorem and the speeding up of Grover's search algorithm**  
Karthikeyan S. Kumar, G. S. Paraoanu  
Europhys. Lett. 93, 64002 (2011)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.4032  
<blockquote>
<p>
We prove that it is impossible to built a universal quantum machine that produces reflections about an unknown state. We then point out a connection between this result and the optimality of Grover's search algorithm: if such reflection machines were available, it would be possible to accelerate Grover's search algorithm to exponential speedups.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**13.    A measure of tripartite entanglement in bosonic and fermionic systems**  
Fabrizio Buscemi, Paolo Bordone  
Phys. Rev. A 84, 022303 (2011)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.4061  
<blockquote>
<p>
We describe an efficient theoretical criterion suitable for the evaluation of the tripartite entanglement of any mixed three-boson or -fermion state, based on the notion of the entanglement of particles for bipartite systems of identical particles. Our approach allows one to quantify the accessible amount of quantum correlations in the systems without any violation of the local particle number superselection rule. A generalization of the tripartite negativity is here applied to some correlated systems including the continuous-time quantum walks of identical particles (both for bosons and fermions) and compared with other criteria recently proposed in the literature. Our results show the dependence of the entanglement dynamics upon the quantum statistics: the bosonic bunching results into a low amount of quantum correlations while Fermi-Dirac statistics allows for higher values of the entanglement.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**14.    Oscillator state reconstruction via tunable qubit coupling in Markovian environments**  
Tommaso Tufarelli, M. S. Kim, Sougato Bose  
Phys Rev A, 83, 062120 (2011)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.4248  
<blockquote>
<p>
We show that a parametrically coupled qubit can be used to fully reconstruct the quantum state of a harmonic oscillator, even when both systems are subject to decoherence. By controlling the coupling strength of the qubit over time, the characteristic function of the oscillator at any phase space point can be directly measured by combining the expectation values of two Pauli operators. The effect of decoherence can be filtered out from the measured data, provided a sufficient number of experimental runs is performed. In situations where full state reconstruction is not practical or not necessary, the method can still be used to estimate low order moments of the mechanical quadratures. We also show that in the same framework it is possible to prepare superposition states of the oscillator. The model is very general but particularly appropriate for nanomechanical systems.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**15.    Quantum Error Correction of Continuous Variable States against Gaussian Noise**  
T.C.Ralph  
Phys. Rev. A 84, 022339 (2011)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.4309  
<blockquote>
<p>
We describe a continuous variable error correction protocol that can correct the Gaussian noise induced by linear loss on Gaussian states. The protocol can be implemented using linear optics and photon counting. We explore the theoretical bounds of the protocol as well as the expected performance given current knowledge and technology.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**16.    Observation of high coherence in Josephson junction qubits measured in a three-dimensional circuit QED architecture**  
Hanhee Paik, D. I. Schuster, Lev S. Bishop, G. Kirchmair, G. Catelani, A. P. Sears, B. R. Johnson, M. J. Reagor, L. Frunzio, L. Glazman, S. M. Girvin, M. H. Devoret, R. J. Schoelkopf  
Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 240501 (2011)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.4652  
<blockquote>
<p>
Superconducting quantum circuits based on Josephson junctions have made rapid progress in demonstrating quantum behavior and scalability. However, the future prospects ultimately depend upon the intrinsic coherence of Josephson junctions, and whether superconducting qubits can be adequately isolated from their environment. We introduce a new architecture for superconducting quantum circuits employing a three dimensional resonator that suppresses qubit decoherence while maintaining sufficient coupling to the control signal. With the new architecture, we demonstrate that Josephson junction qubits are highly coherent, with $T_2 \sim 10 \mu$s to $20 \mu$s without the use of spin echo, and highly stable, showing no evidence for $1/f$ critical current noise. These results suggest that the overall quality of Josephson junctions in these qubits will allow error rates of a few $10^{-4}$, approaching the error correction threshold.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**17.    SNEG - Mathematica package for symbolic calculations with second-quantization-operator expressions**  
Rok Zitko  
http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.4697  
<blockquote>
<p>
In many-particle problems involving interacting fermions or bosons, the most natural language for expressing the Hamiltonian, the observables, and the basis states is the language of the second-quantization operators. It thus appears advantageous to write numerical computer codes which allow the user to define the problem and the quantities of interest directly in terms of operator strings, rather than in some low-level programming language. Here I describe a Mathematica package which provides a flexible framework for performing the required translations between several different representations of operator expressions: condensed notation using pure ASCII character strings, traditional notation ("pretty printing"), internal Mathematica representation using nested lists (used for automatic symbolic manipulations), and various higher-level ("macro") expressions. The package consists of a collection of transformation rules that define the algebra of operators and a comprehensive library of utility functions. While the emphasis is given on the problems from solid-state and atomic physics, the package can be easily adapted to any given problem involving non-commuting operators. It can be used for educational and demonstration purposes, but also for direct calculations of problems of moderate size.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**18.    M-Particle Quantum Walks with Delta-Interaction**  
Clement Ampadu  
http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.6076  
<blockquote>
<p>
We consider directional correlations between M-particles on a line. For non-interacting particles we find analytic asymptotic expressions. When delta-interaction is introduced in the model we study the Fourier analysis and obtain general analytic formula for the wave function of the walk in the case M is 2 for the transformation C-delta, which can be considered an unfactorized version of the Hadamard walk in two-dimensions.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**19.    Bounds for the Distance Dependence of Correlation Functions of Entangled Photons in Waveguides**  
Andrei Khrennikov, Borje Nilsson, Sven Nordebo, Igor Volovich  
Phys. Scr, 85, 2012. 065404  
http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.6112  
<blockquote>
<p>
The distance dependence of the probability of observing two photons in a waveguide is investigated. The Glauber correlation functions of the entangled photons in waveguides are considered and the spatial and temporal dependence of the correlation functions is evaluated. We derive upper bounds to the distance dependence of the probability of observing two photons. These inequalities should be possible to observe in experiments.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**20.    A test of "fluctuation theorem" in non-Markovian open quantum systems**  
Tatsuro Kawamoto, Naomichi Hatano  
http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.3579  
<blockquote>
<p>
We study fluctuation theorems for open quantum systems with a non-Markovian heat bath using the approach of quantum master equations and examine the physical quantities that appear in those fluctuation theorems. The approach of Markovian quantum master equations to the fluctuation theorems was developed by Esposito and Mukamel [Phys. Rev. E {\bf73}, 046129 (2006)]. We show that their discussion can be formally generalized to the case of a non-Markovian heat bath when the local system is linearly connected to a Gaussian heat bath with the spectrum distribution of the Drude form. We found by numerically simulating the spin-boson model in non-Markovian regime that the "detailed balance" condition is well satisfied except in a strongly non-equilibrium transient situation, and hence our generalization of the definition of the "entropy production" is almost always legitimate. Therefore, our generalization of the fluctuation theorem seems meaningful in wide regions.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**21.    Realization of Discrete Quantum Billiard in 2D Optical Lattices**  
Dmitry O. Krimer, Ramaz Khomeriki  
Phys. Rev. A 84, 041807(R) (2011)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.4826  
<blockquote>
<p>
We propose the method for optical visualization of Bose-Hubbard model with two interacting bosons in the form of two-dimensional (2D) optical lattices consisting of optical waveguides, where the waveguides at the diagonal are characterized by different refractive index than others elsewhere, modeling the boson-boson interaction. We study the light intensity distribution function averaged over direction of propagation for both ordered and disordered cases, exploring sensitivity of the averaged picture with respect to the beam injection position. For our finite systems the resulting patterns reminiscent the ones set in billiards and therefore we introduce a definition of discrete quantum billiard discussing the possible relevance to its well established continuous counterpart.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**22.    Asymptotic and numerical studies of resonant tunneling in 2D quantum waveguides of variable cross-section**  
Lev Baskin, Muaed Kabardov, Pekka Neittaanm?ki, Boris Plamenevskii, Oleg Sarafanov  
http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.4860  
<blockquote>
<p>
A waveguide coincides with a strip having two narrows of diameter $\epsilon$. Electron motion is described by the Helmholtz equation with Dirichlet boundary condition. The part of waveguide between the narrows plays the role of resonator and there can occur electron resonant tunneling. This phenomenon consists in the fact that, for an electron with energy $E$, the probability $T(E)$ to pass from one part of the waveguide to the other part through the resonator has a sharp peak at $E=E_{res}$, where $E_{res}$ denotes a "resonant" energy. In the present paper, we compare the asymptotics of $E_{res}=E_{res}(\epsilon)$ and $T(E)=T(E, \epsilon)$ as $\epsilon \to 0$ with the corresponding numerical results obtained by approximate computing the waveguide scattering matrix. We show that there exists a band of $\epsilon$ where the asymptotics and numerical results are in close agreement. The numerical calculations become inefficient as $\epsilon$ decreases; however, at such a condition the asymptotics remains reliable. On the other hand, the asymptotics gives way to the numerical method as $\epsilon$ increases; in fact, for wide narrows the resonant tunneling vanishes by itself. Though, in the present paper, we consider only a 2D waveguide, the applicability of the methods goes far beyond the above simplest model. In particular, the same approach will work for asymptotic and numerical analysis of resonant tunneling in 3D quantum waveguides.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**23.    Observation of topologically protected bound states in a one dimensional photonic system**  
Takuya Kitagawa, Matthew A. Broome, Alessandro Fedrizzi, Mark S. Rudner, Erez Berg, Ivan Kassal, Alán Aspuru-Guzik, Eugene Demler, Andrew G. White  
Nature Communications 3, 882, 2012  
http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.5334  
<blockquote>
<p>
One of the most striking features of quantum mechanics is the appearance of phases of matter with topological origins. These phases result in remarkably robust macroscopic phenomena such as the edge modes in integer quantum Hall systems, the gapless surface states of topological insulators, and elementary excitations with non-abelian statistics in fractional quantum Hall systems and topological superconductors. Many of these states hold promise in the applications to quantum memories and quantum computation. Artificial quantum systems, with their precise controllability, provide a versatile platform for creating and probing a wide variety of topological phases. Here we investigate topological phenomena in one dimension, using photonic quantum walks. The photon evolution simulates the dynamics of topological phases which have been predicted to arise in, for example, polyacetylene. We experimentally confirm the long-standing prediction of topologically protected localized states associated with these phases by directly imaging their wavefunctions. Moreover, we reveal an entirely new topological phenomenon: the existence of a topologically protected pair of bound states which is unique to periodically driven systems. Our experiment demonstrates a powerful new approach for controlling topological properties of quantum systems through periodic driving.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

